CANADA

DEBATES OF THE SENATE
OFFICIAL REPORT
(HANSARD)

THE HONOURABLE GILDAS L. MOLGAT
SPEAKER

1994-96
FIRST SESSION, THIRTY-FIFTH PARLIAMENT
43-44-45 ELIZABETH II
VOLUME III
July 12, 1995 to February 2, 1996

Parliamentwas opened on January17, 1994
and was proroguedon February2, 1996

THE SPEAKER
TH~E HONOURABLE GILDAs L. MOLGAT
THE LEADER 0F THE GOVERNMENT
THE HONOURABLE JOYCE FAmiRPRN, P.C.
THE LEADER 0F THE OPPOSITION
THoE HONOURABLE JoHN' LYNCH-STAUNTON

OFFICERS 0F THE SENATE
CLERK 0F THE SENATE AND CLERK 0F THE PARLIAMENTS
PAuL C. RÉusLE. ESQ.

CLERK ASSISTANT 0F THE SENATE
RICHARD G. GREEN

LAW CLERK AND PARLIALMENTARY COUNSEL
R.L. inu PLE-ssis, Q.C.. B.A.. LL.L.
GENTLEMAN IJSHER 0F THE BLACK ROD
COL. JEA DORÉ, C.D.

TUE SENATE
Wednesday, July 12, 1995
The Senate met at 1:30 p.m.. the Speaker in the Chair.
Prayers.

SENATORS' STATEMENTS
TRANSPORT
REPLACEMENT 0F SEARCH AND RESCUE HELICOPTER
AT YARMOUTH, NOVA SCOTIA

Hon. Gerald J. Comeau: Honourable senators. 1 rise today to

express my shock and outrage at the decision by the Liberal
government to replace the all-weather rescue and surveillance
helicopter in Yarmouth, Nova Scotia with a Coast Guard utility
chopper. I was even more surprised at this announcement. given
that it was only a year ago that the Minister of Fisheries and
Oceans was in my area promising that. without question. the
helicopter would remain there. In fact, my understanding is that.
at that time. he said that the chopper would remain there -until
helI treezes over.1 cannot stress enough how important this helicopter is in
ensuring the safety of our fishermen who are at risk while ai
work on the high seas. 1 know ail too well the importance of
having an adequate search and rescue helicopter on patrol. In
fact. as the Member of' Parliament for the area at the time. 1 was
the one who made sure that an all-weather helicopter. the
Sikorsky S-76, was finally provided to the tishermen in my area
in 1988 hy the Department of Fisheries and Oceans. Since then.
the chopper has heen involved in numerous search and rescue
operations at sea and has saved the lives of many fishermen.
It is absolutely unacceptable that the Liberal government
should try to rationalize its decision by citing the financial
savings of using a chopper from the Canadian Coast Guard. They
fail to mention that the BO- 105 cannot fly in bad weather, or on
most nights. which is precisely the type of conditions which
require the use of these choppers. As well. the BO-l105 can only
fly short distances.
For the Minister of Fisheries and Oceans even to, suggest that
the savings to he derived from switching helicopters justifies his
decision is shocking. What price does this Liberal government
put on the lives of fishermen who will be put at risk by this
decision?
Although I understand that the merger of the Canadian Coast
Guard with the Department of Fisheries and Oceans has played a
role in this decision, 1 caîl upon the government to hait
immediately its plans for replacing the Sikorsky S-76 and
reconsider its options. Given the impending announcement ol the

new search, rescue and surveillance helicopters to replace the
Labrador and Sea Kings. 1 suggest that the government simply
extend its contract with Canadian Helicopters for the Sikorsky
S-76 until such time as the new helicopters are ready to, bc put
into service.
Only in that way can we ensure that our fishermen are being
properly protected with the necessary equipment as they head out
to sea. sometimes as far away as Georges Banks. Our lishermen
and their flimilies in Nova Scotia deserve no less.

PARKS CANADA
RESi ORED FORTRESS AT LOUISBOURG,
NOVA SCOTIA FESTiviTrIEs 199~5

Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourable senators. 1 should like to take this
opportunity to remind the chamber that this summer.
Fortress and the Town of Louisbourg in Cape Breton
host to one of the most exciting festivals in North
commemorating. in turn, Fortress Louisbourg*s 275th
the 250th anniversary of' the first siege of the
anniversary
1lOOth
the
and
installations,
Sydney-to-Louishourg railway.

hoth the
wiIl play
America
birthday.
military
of the

Those of you who have already visited the reconstructed site
will know that Louisbourg predates Quebec as a milestone in our
history. The fortress town arose from Louis XIV's rather
extravagant vision of empire and, at its zenith. was considered to
be the mightiest military bastion in the New World, or the
Gibraltar ot Canada, as some historians have put it.
In fact, the defence works cost so much that the impoverished
Sun King, as Louis was known, once swore in frustration that he
would awaken in Versailles one morning to see the spires of
Louisbourg rising above the western horizon.
At one time, Louisbourg was as important as New York, more
populous than any place in Canada, and the only walled city of
its kind on the North American continent. Much more than a
fortress, it was, in its short lifespan. a metropolitan sea port
hulging with trade and intrigue.
In the siege of 1758. the fortified city was completely
demolished, and there it remained for over 100 years. a forlorn
pile of broken stone and charred wood located on a rocky, misty
finger of land on the southeast corner of Cape Breton Island. It
was not until the early 1960s that federal initiatives were taken to
reconstruct the fortress as a means of putting unemployed miners
in Cape Breton hack to work. AIl that in the wake of the
recommendations of the Royal Commission on Coal. made
iii 1960.

July 12, 1995

JuIy 12, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

2009
2009

SENATE DEBATES

* <13-1o>

I might add, honourable senators, that tourism is close to a
billion dollar industry in Nova Scotia, and accounts for close to
35,000 jobs. On Cape Breton Island, this translates into
about $200 million in revenues and 7,000 jobs. With the collapse
of the fisheries, Parks Canada has become the single largest
employer in the area, and Louisbourg is, of course, critical to the
big picture.

days to undertake the work. Indeed, it has often occurred to me
that it would be a far more useful expenditure of public moneys
to expand that site than some of the other expenditures we are
called upon to examine from time to time.
What we have in Louisbourg is a precious national asset. It is
worth a visit by anyone, if only because it is well run by the
historic sites and historic parks people and by the local people
who are employed there during the summer.

Today, entering the site is much like entering a time machine.
Extensive historical and archaeological research has allowed
authentic reconstruction of the principal buildings of the French
fortress once proudly designed to protect all of New France.

Finally, I reassure all honourable senators that you can get
there from Sydney and you do not have to wait for the
reconstruction of the Fleur-de-lis Trail.

The capital costs to successive federal govemments involved
in the almost two decades of restoration have amounted to
over $27 million. The replacement value of the present
reconstruction is estimated at $71 million, of which $30 million
is accounted for by the fortification walls alone.

WEBER-MALAKHOV ARCTIC EXPEDITION

As part of the festivities this summer, a Grand Encampment
will showcase authentic 18th century military camp life, and over
1,400 re-enactors, representing individual regiments from
Canada and the United States, will participate. A spectacular
Atlantic flotilla of tall ships The Hon. the Speaker: I apologize for interrupting the
honourable senator, but his time is up. Is leave granted that he
may continue?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Senator Graham: A spectacular Atlantic flotilla of tall ships
will provide an extraordinary and spectacular backdrop in the
port and at sea.
Festival organizers have planned a rich tapestry of Cape
Breton local colour, outdoor theatre, and unsurpassed musical
accompaniment.
I remind all honourable senators that we are pulling out all the
stops for Louisbourg '95 this summer. I would invite you to
come to our part of the world and have a real holiday for a
change. In so doing, enjoy a special taste of the incomparable
world-famous Cape Breton hospitality.
Hon. Lowell Murray: Honourable senators, may I be
permitted to say a word in support of what Senator Graham has
just said?
I am, and have been for many years, a frequent visitor to
Louisbourg. It is one of the greatest examples of restoration to be
found anywhere in the world, and it is well worth a visit. I should
also point out that there are, in the files of the historic parks
department, plans for further expansion of that beautiful site, and
there is no shortage of unemployed people in Cape Breton these

TRIBUTES
Hon. Philippe Deane Gigantès: Honourable senators, one of
the most endearing characteristics of Canadians is that they do
not stand up at the drop of any hat, massage the left breast and
swear allegiance to the flag. We are not given to waving flags too
much. We are modest. However, we sometimes forget to sing the
praises of our genuine heroes.
Today I should like to draw your attention to one who, on
June 15, while we were otherwise busy, completed an amazing
feat. I am referring to Richard Weber, who, with a partner from
Russia named Mikhail Malakhov, skied from the northern end of
Ellesmere Island to the North Pole and back. They were back on
June 15, carrying all their own equipment.
To give you a comparison of what it means to accomplish such
a feat at 58 below, which was the temperature they faced in
February when they started, Rheinhold Messmer, who has
climbed all the major peaks of the Himalayas without oxygen,
tried it and had to give up after 11 kilometres.
Richard Weber and his Russian partner skied 2,000 kilometres,
and then, because it was late in the year and the ice was breaking
up, had to rush in order to make it. The last 16 miles took
40 hours, and during the last eight days they slept a total of
18 hours. They stayed in communication with legions of school
children via satellite, sending bursts of 64 characters per day so
the school children could follow their progress. There was no
helicopter to rescue them; no plane to drop them supplies. It is a
feat that is superior in human endurance and courage to the first
climb of Everest by Sir Edmund Hillary.
Russia is honouring Mikhail Malakhov; we are not honouring
Richard Weber. I regret this. This speech is a small substitute for
a national honour. He deserves that one lone senator should rise
to say that this is a man of great courage, fortitude, strength, and
determination. He has honoured our country, and we should all
be proud of him.

ROUTINE PROCEEDINGS
CHILD ABUSE AND MORTALITY
NOTICE OF INQUIRY

Hon. Anne C. Cools: Honourable senators, pursuant to
rules 56(1), (2) and 57(2), I hereby give notice that I will call the
attention of the Senate to the issues of child mortality, child
abuse, neglect. deaths (CAN deaths), child abuse and child
maltreatment in Canada, including the physical injury of
children, parental violence and aggression. child neglect, the
"failure to thrive" syndrome. psychological injury to children,
parental manipulation of children, and misadventure suffered by
children in Canada.

QUESTION PERIOD
CANADA POST CORPORATION
LEASE OF PREMISES IN SYDNEY. NOVA SCOTIA-INTERVENTION
OF MINISTER OF PUBLIC WORKS-REQUEST FOR ANSWER

Hon. J. Michael Forrestall: Honourable senators, is the

Leader of the Govemment in the Senate in a position to table the
terms of reference of the Price Waterhouse review I asked about
yesterday?

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):

Honourable senators, I regret that I have not received a response
in time for this Question Period. I will continue to try throughout
the day and see what I can do for tomorrow.

Senator Forrestall: Honourable senators, I gather from the
news reports that the minister has issued an instruction to his
staff to take a look at these most recent allegations with respect
to the business centre. If there happens to be terms of reference
that the minister would like to see met, it would be appreciated if
it were tabled as well.
My concern is the terms of reference, which I will await and
read in some detail. The reference refers only to the first contract,
and not the second. How are we to understand the importance of
the second contract if in fact the terms of reference for Price
Waterhouse do not include the subsequent contract?
Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators. I will certainly
endeavour to clarify that point. It has been made clear to me that
a review has been requested in each case. However. I will clarify
that as well as exactly who is doing it. I will try to find out as
much information as I can for Senator Forrestall.
EXTENSION OF CONTRACT ON LEASESREQUEST FOR INFORMATION ON MEMBERS OF CONSORTIUM

Hon. Gerald J. Comeau: Honourable senators, my question is
addressed to the Govemment Leader in the Senate. It is further to
my inquiry yesterday regarding the interference by the Minister
of Public Works into the contract between Canada Post
Corporation's properties and leases division and the consortium
of companies.
My sources had indicated Mr. Dingwall had not only
instructed Canada Post to extend the contract from three to seven
years. but, in addition. demanded that a fourth member be added
to the consortium. Can the leader tell us if she has had the
opportunity to find out from her cabinet colleague the identity of
this new member?

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):

Senator Forrestall: We have now learned of further
allegations involving Mr. Dingwall and a $1.5-million contract
awarded to the Business Development Centre in Sydney.
Allegedly, tender specifications were altered to suit a specific
developer. Other local developers admitted that it would have
been a waste of time to bid on this project since it was clear that
a Liberal loyalist. Louis Friedman. was in line for the contract.
All of this, of course, brings the question of the competitive
process into disrepute.
Can the Leader of the Government in the Senate shed some
new light on this round of allegations? Since there is no doubt
whatsoever on this side of the chamber that Mr. Dingwall
perhaps should do the honourable thing and resign, or at least
step aside, could the leader tell us what she personally thinks?
Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators. on this particular
question, I am also seeking further information. At the request of
the Minister of Public Works, Public Works and Government
Services Canada is reviewing the tender process and the
allegations that have been made about the lease. I will await to
hear the results of that review.

Honourable senators, as requested I have contacted the minister's
office regarding the questions asked yesterday. Neither his office
nor officials at Canada Post are aware of any change in the
existing contract for property management. The honourable
senator will appreciate that we had our Question Period late last
night, and, while I have put in a request for information, it may
take a bit longer to receive the answers.

HIS EXCELLENCY DAVID BERGER
SCRUTINY ON VIEWS PRIOR TO HIS APPOINTMENT AS
AMBASSADOR TO ISRAEL AND CYPRUS-GOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. Marcel Prud'homme: Honourable senators, prior to
the announcement of Mr. David Berger as Ambassador to Israel,
was he asked if he supports the policy concerning
UN resolution 338 which demands a complete withdrawal from
occupied territories? This has been the policy of Canada
through many of its past governments; the Right Honourable
Pierre Elliott Trudeau. Kim Campbell. John Turner. and
Brian Mulroney.

July 12,

1995

July 12, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

Everyone has talked about resolutions 338 and 242. The press
states that Canada supports 242. When an explanation is given,
then we get in trouble. If you just mention the resolution number,
you are never in trouble.
Was he asked clearly, "Do you support resolution 242,
withdrawal from occupied territories, withdrawal from Golan
Heights, withdrawal from South Lebanon, recognition of the
Palestinian people?" Did he accept that the statute of Jerusalem
will some day be the subject of discussion? Has he been asked
these questions? Has he been answering, "Yes, I do accept
Canadian official policies that have been well entrenched under
successive Canadian governments"?
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, obviously I cannot indicate today what
conversations may have taken place with Ambassador Berger.
I think he would know that certainly the new ambassador should
be strongly in support of the Canadian position. It is well known
that he has been a strong supporter of the peace process in the
Middle East. I do not know the details of any conversations, nor
do I know whether I will be able to discover them for my
honourable friend, but I will certainly pass on his question to the
proper individuals.
Senator Prud'homme: Honourable senators, I have to differ
on that point. He has never been a supporter of the peace process.
The peace process means recognition of the Palestinian people
and their spokesperson. Has he been asked to stay away from the
"Butcher of Lebanon," whom he welcomed warmly in Montreal,
in the company of a member of the House of Commons who is
now a senator, after the invasion of Lebanon? She however is not
involved, so I will not mention her name. I did not mind such
actions in the past, but now he represents me and the French
Canadian people, who have always been sympathetic to the
cause of the Palestinian people.
0(1400)

As Canada's ambassador to Israel, he will be under great
scrutiny. I have already made calls to the Middle East to make
sure that he is welcome there, and that he is shown the true
situation. I am doing my duty as a Canadian. I want him to
succeed in his new appointment, but he has a long way to go.
I want to make sure, as he did, and that is why I am asking that
you refer these questions to the appropriate people. That is
very important.
Canada has the greatest of reputations in the Middle East.
I have just returned from Lebanon and Kuwait. Canada is so
highly perceived that the attitude of our ambassador could affect
our reputation.
Honourable senators, I will make a motion on the issue of
Middle East policy before the departure of this Parliament, but
I ask you again, has Mr. Berger been asked these questions?
Second, has he been asked to apologize, either privately or
publicly -

2011
2011

SENATE DEBATES

which, to me, would be more appropriate -

to me

and to the mayor of Bethlehem, one of the most reasonable
persons to ever appear here before a committee of the Senate?
Honourable senators will have read of the incident in the
newspaper where. under the heat of discussion. he is supposed to

have said to the mayor that he was "as full of shit" - and
I mention the word - as I was. That was to the Christian mayor
of Bethlehem, who is the most honourable person to appear
before a Senate committee. I hope Mr. Berger was given that
kind of instruction, in order to better serve Canada's interests.
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, Senator Prud'homme has mentioned the
regard with which Canada is held for its policies within the
Middle East. The new ambassador to Israel will, of course, be
carrying Canada's policies in the Middle East strongly with him
when he begins his new assignment. There is no question about
that, Senator Prud'homme. I will pass on your comments, but let
there be no doubt that the new ambassador to Israel will carry the
Canadian position to the Middle East with vigour.
AGRICULTURE
CANADIAN WHEAT BOARD-TIMING OF EXAMINATION
BY EXPERTS-GOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. Leonard J. Gustafson: Honourable senators, my
question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the
Senate. In view of the dramatic changes in agriculture, and also
of the recommendations made by the trade committee which
looked into trade between the U.S. and Canada, the Minister of
Agriculture has promised that a committee of experts would look
into the work of the Canadian Wheat Board. Does the minister
have any indication of timing on this matter? Things are
changing quickly in agriculture these days, and the government
must move quickly to accommodate those changes.
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, I appreciate the comments of my
honourable friend. I can tell him that the Minister of Agriculture
has this item very high on his agenda. He is moving as swiftly as
he can. I cannot give the honourable senator an exact time-frame,
but it will be very soon.

ORDERS OF THE DAY
GOVERNMENT ORGANIZATION BILL
(FEDERAL AGENCIES)
THIRD READING

Hon. B. Alasdair Graham moved the third reading of
Bill C-65, to reorganize and dissolve certain federal agencies.
Hon. Eymard G. Corbin: Honourable senators, with respect
to Bill C-65, the Government Organization Bill (Federal
Agencies), there is a provision in this bill to remove the position
of assistant director of the Canada Council. Clauses of the bill
refer to salaries and allowances paid to members of the council,
including the president, vice-president and the nine other
members. Their numbers have been reduced from what they were
previously. I believe there were 19 members of the Canada
Council. The bill also deals with the remuneration and
allowances to be paid to the director of the council.

In March of ibis year, a reporter frorn The Ottawa Citiz-eni
publisbed a story informing us that the director of the Canada
Council was receiving a living allowance of $1.300 a rnontb.
wbicb adds up to $46,800 for three years. This was being paid to
the director in lieu of rnoving expenses to Ottawa from Montreal.

of colleagues frorn both sides of the bouse who could use to their
advantage that $6.000 allocation the House of Commons
members granted themselves by way of a decision in the back
rooms of the House of Commons.

In rny opinion. honourable senators. ibis is a generous
allowance. However, what 1 find mnore fascinating in respect 10
this payrnenî is that the bead office of the Canada Council is
obviously in Ottawa, or certainly in the National Capital Region.
The bill does not siate that, but for aIl practical purposes. that is
the general undersianding. that the Canada Council operaies oui
of Ottawa. Therefore, for aIl practical purposes. tbe director is
the chief executive officer of tbe Canada Council; flot the
presideni or the vice-president; none of the other nine rnerbers
of the Canada Council. It is the director wbo is the chief
executive ofticer, and be does not reside in Ottawa.

decision 2ý

The cbronicler of The Ottawa Citiz-en atternpted 10 find out
wby the director of the Canada Council bad flot rnoved to Ottawa
to assurne bis duties. He was inforrned by a person ai the Canada
Council that that was a personal rnatter. The sarne response was
given with respect to other questions.

On the other hand. we have the goverrnent which establishes
a policy for well-paid. top civil servants - people who receive
well over $ 100,000 in salary, luxury offices; some have cars and
chauffeurs and expense-recoverable trips in Canada, North
Arnerica and Europe. trips planned as they sec fit. Over and
above what they already gel. these people receive a special
allowance s0 that îhey do flot have to reside in the national
capital area.

Honourable senators. I have been atternpting 10 ascertain tbe
reasons why the director of the Canada Council, as expected of
birn and as was expected of bis predecessors, does not reside
in Ottawa.
* (1410)

Since my intervention last evening on tbe presentation of' tbe
report frorn the cornrittee by Senator Murray. I have received
sorne informnation. However. it is so succinct it can only be
considered an illusion of a response. 1 received an answer dated
June 30. 1995. Tbe question was. Is the Director of the Canada
Council in receipt ot a living allowance and, if so. wby?- The
answer was, "The rernuneration of Mr. Rocb Carrier, tbe Direcior
of tbe Canada Counicil. was fixed by the Governor in Council and
a living allowance was also approved in lieu of relocation
expenses.1 do not know if tbis is a new trend. Tbe Cornrissioner of
OfficiaI Languages appointed by tbe previous governrnent also
benefits. I believe. frorn a living allowance in Ottawa wbere be
bas cbosen flot to reside for. 1 presurne. personal reasons.
Honourable senators will recail that two or tbree years ago. in
rnid-July. ibe Senate was called back 10 revoke a decision it bad
mnade respecting the payrnent of a $6.000 living allowance 10
senalors? Senators were literally ordered back bere. A number of
rny colleagues stood up and reversed their earlier decisions.
Here is an overly generous policy wbereby - in view of tbe
position they occupy and the dues tbey are expected 10 execute
requiring them t0 reside in Ottawa -these persons are paid an
allocation or special allowance flot to reside in Ottawa. One must
put things in scale and look ai ibern in perspective.
Botb tbe previous governrment and tbis goverrirnent are
responsible foir ibis state of' atiairs. It is basically unfair. 1 know

1Senator

(oibin 1

Senator Stewart: Has the Auditor General examined that

Senator Corbin: 1 ar nfot aware of that. Senator Stewart.
Ras he?

Senator Stewart: I do flot know.
Senator Corbin: The senators attempted to do the same thing
because a number of senators were faced with out-of-pocket
expenses to meet their living costs in Ottawa. Sorne still are.
Every week that we sit during the summer, senators have to dig
into their pockets - flot ail of' thern. but a number of thern.

1 find the governrnent's approacb hypocritical. On the one
hand. it tells senators. "No way, we will flot allow you t() recover
your legitirnate living expenses in Ottawa." The goverfiment
does flot say that to members of the House of Commons. and
these well-paid. Governor-in-Council appointees also have the
same pnivilege.
1 have been tighting the decision of the Canada Council to
close the Art Bank. It is incumbent upon us t0 start exarnining ail
aspects of the operation of the Canada Couincil. 1 arn a supporter
of the Canada Council. Some senators are not, and ibat is fine.
However, 1 arn prepared to defend my ideas and rny views on
what art and subsidies to artists and culture are aIl about. Other
people will flot agree with rny views. Let us have a debate.
There sbould be a committee to review the cultural policy of
the Canadian govemnment. The time is right for ihat, in view of
wbaî is going on currently in the Canada Council.
We realize that what is happening is in the cost-cutting context
of government budgets. Agencies and Crown corporations are
requested to do the sarne. Indeed. parliarneniarians are requested
to do the sarne, and we have been doing that. Our incorne bas
been frozen for sorne tirne. 1 have been bere over 26 years. It is
flot the first tirne that 1 have bad rny salary frozen. It is at least
the tbird tirne. I arn sure Senator Prud'honmme could elaborate if
he so wishes.
How can the goverfiment of the day or the previous
goverinment say one day that parliarnentarians must set an
example, must show the way. and then the next day say ihat if
bas made concessions 10 bigbly paid servants of the state? 1 do
flot buy it.

July 12, 1995

JuIy12,

SENATE DEBATES

ENAT DEBTES2013
995

I may be anticipating comments Senator Simard wishes to
make on another bill a littie later. Those are the facts of the case.

In fact, I will need more time than I intended because 1 will
have t0 refer to three or four documents.

1 arn inclined to move a motion to refer Bill C-65 back to the
committee. 1 will not do it because there are other ways to tackle
this problem.

Honourable senators, since the faîl of 1993, there were many
months when the Senate did not sit because the Chrétien
government failed to plan and t0 proceed with ils legisiative
agenda in an orderly and efficient manner. That was,
unforlunately, the governmenl's decision.

It has been suggested that a commiîtee be set up te examine
the total context of the Govemment of Canada's cultural policies
and those of its agencies. We seem to do it in bits and pieces.
One commiîîee looks ai the CBC, another looks at something
else. In the meantime, the agencies pretty well do what
they want.
The Canada Council, in one stroke of the pen, has said the Art
Bank wiII go. One of the richest collections of art spanning over
30 years will be disposed of one way or another.
You are preparing to put the axe to me, Your Honour, and that
is fine, but do not take Senator Corbin for granted. I have not
been given satisfacîory answers in commitîee, and the follow-up
has not been satisfactory. I will, if not in the next sitting of the
Senate, certainly in the next session, take initiatives to, put some
order into that area.

Similarly, we are now seeing one of those not necessarily
mortal but most certainly venial sins committed by the Liberal
govemment.
Suddenly, we are faced with an avalanche of bills, and the
Senate is being asked t0 approve this legisiation without full and
detailed consideration. Well, honourable senators, il is our duty.
Lt is my duty 10 consider Bill C-85, for instance, the bill to amend
the Members of Parliament Retiring Allowances Act, and
Bill C-91, which was rushed through yesterday - and I wilI gel
back 10 this, if you will allow me t0 digress somewhat later on the bill to continue the Federal Development Bank and 10 give il
new powers and new capital. The samne applies to Bill C-104, an
act t0 amend the Criminal Code and the Young Offenders Act,
which concemrs the use of forensic DNA analysis.

0(14201)

I look forward with great anticipation 10 what Senator Simard
wiIl tell us on the matter of pensions for members of Parliament.
Motion agreed to and bill read third time and passed.
WEBER-MALAKHOV ARCTIC EXPEDITION
TRIBUTES

Leave having been given

10

revert to Senators' Statements:

Hon. Philippe Deane Gigantès: Honourable senators,
Richard Weber, who skied t0 the North Pole and back, with only
one companion, and carrying ail his equipment, is being named
Hero of Russia. We have not given him one tlower.
[Translation]

MEMBERS 0F PARLIAMENT RETTRING
ALLOWANCES ACT
BILL TO AMEND-THIRD READING

Hon. B. Alasdair Graham moved the third reading of
Bill C-85, 10 amend the Members of Parliament Retiring
Allowances Act and 10 provide for the continuation of a certain
provision.
Hon. Jean-Maurice Simard: Honourable senators, I have
only a few comments and do not expect 10 exceed the 15 minutes
usually allowed at this stage. If 1 do, it will be because I was
pressed for time and did not have a chance to prepare a more
structured speech than the one you are about t0 hear.

The Senate did not spend and will not spend any lime on these
bills unless, a few hours from now, enough senators vote against
one or two or three of these bis.
In other words, the Senate does not have enough lime 10 do
justice to these buis, 10 important legislation that will have a
major impact on the lives of Canadians in a variety of ways. We
really have no lime 10 proceed wiîh a serious analysis of these
measures.
If the govemnment were really doing ils job, il would have
introduced this legislation much sooner. At the very least, in the
case of these three bills, for instance, the govemment could - as
repeatedly requested by senators on this side, by Canadians,
editorial writers and leaders of public opinion, each in their own
way and wiîh their own resources - have postponed final
approval of some of these bis and scheduled third reading in the
fail.
To gel back to Bill C-85, there are several reasons why I feel
this bill should be reviewed by our senators. First of aIl, as you
know, the bill deals with the employmenl benefiîs of members of
Parliament. The bill was passed by the members of the House of
Commons.
This govemment bold us through ils minister, the President of
the Treasury Board, on June 29 when the Senate, represenled by
the comm-ittee so ably chaired by our colleague Senator Murray,
spent only one hour on the bill, perhaps an extra two minutes, but
not more than 62 minutes. I do not think that is what Canadians
expect from the Senate. However, 62 minutes is stilI 50 minutes
more Ihan the House of Commons, whose commiîîee examined
the bill and spent a grand total of 12 minutes on clause-by-clause
consideration of Bill C-85. Now Ihat is outrageous.

Now I want to get back to Bill C-91. on which my colleague
Senator Sylvain commented yesterday. and 1 imagine my
colleague Senator Corbin may have a few things 10 say about the
bill later on. Referring bu Bill C-91. the government told us
through ils minister in commitîc that the bill had 10 be passed as
soon as possible. It could not be sent back 10 the House of
Commons. What the goveroment should have said was that the
Liberal government and Liberal members did not want 10 go
back lu thc House bu receive any amcndments the Senate might
propose. Il would have been more îruîhful. more logical and
more sensible to admit they did not want 10 come back.
Canadians will recaîl that this bank was more or less a creation
of the government. Il was given almost unlimited capital and the
power to lend money t0 aIl the banks* customers. The bank was
given considerable powers. unlimiîed capital. and borrowing
authority.
I wanted to make these commenîs because this bill illustrates
the strategy of the Liberal governiment. For several years.
Canadians have witnessed attempts by provincial governments
and the lederal government 10 privatize. In some provinces.
hospitals are being privatized. Highways are being privatized. A
few weeks ago. New Brunswick started to privatize ils prisons.
Meanwhile. in 1995. while others are privati/ing. this
govemment creates new public banks.
',(40

I can tell you that I find no comtort in the statement made the
other day by Mrs. Sinclair. Chair of' the Canadian Bankers'
Association, who bold the committee that her association had no
objection t0 letting another competitor enter the market.
The governmcnt is going in aIl directions. and this is truc on
social, economie. and other areas. The government privatizes.
deprivatizes. creates, abolishes, et cetera.
Let me gel back t0 Bill C-85. In the four minutes I was given
in committee. I îried bu f'ind out if this legislation could be
delayed until the faîl. Minister Eggleton gave us this answer: No,
during the election campaign. as well as in our Red Book. we
said that we had to put an end 10 double dipping and change the
minimum age for retirement. More importantly. the minister told
us that ail these measures were required because the governmenl
wanted 10 reduce the deficit.
Honourable senators. if the governrnent had been senious. as
the minister claimed, il could have tabled this bill in the spring.
summer or faîl of 1994, or even in 1995. In any case, il should
have ensured that this legislation arrived here maybe one and a
haîf or two months ago. su the Senate could give il the thorough
review il deserves.
However. the government did not do that. Minister Eggleton
justifies his haste in pressing the Senate to pass this incomplele
piece of legislation by saying that this is something which he
promised 10 Canadians. This is f'ine, but it is no excuse because.
in February 1994. Elsie Wayne. the Progressive Conservative

rsen ,noî Sininn d 1

member for Saint John. tabled a private member's bill which
would have had the effect of' raising to 60. as opposed to 55. the
minimum age for retirement. That legisiation would have put an
end to double dipping.
What was Mr. Eggleton doing then?ý Was he stili unaware. in
February 1994. of the disastrous state of Canada's public
f'inances? If so, then the situation is even worse than I thought.
We have last minute converts.
Let us not forget that the Progressive Conservative Party in
February 1994, with Jean Charest and Elsie Wayne, tabled this
private member's bill.
With respect to Bill C-85. during the time allocated 10 the
review of this bill. the minister took 40 minutes to repeat those
fine-sounding words and quote excerpîs from the Red Book. et
cetera. 0f course. there are also parts of the Red Book which he
would rather not talk about to Canadians. since the commilments
made there were not fultilled.
However. if the minister had been serious then, and if he were
serious today. he could have done better than make Canadians
save $3 million per year, as he dlaims will be the case with these
amendments. I hope that. like me. a majority of senators will
vote against the bill at this time. so as to give us three or four
extra months to review it.
To look at what? At privatizing this members of' Parliament
retirement fund among other things. That can be donc. Why not?
The goverument has not considered that option. It is not because
the senalors' pensions will be unaffected by Bill C-85. if passed.
as we were reminded by the minister and by some of our lkllow
senators here - because the accrual rate will remain at
3 per cent and our contribution rate at 7 per cent.
0f course. tor the House of Commons. the accrual rate will be
reduced from 5 10 4 per cent, and the contribution rate from Il to
9 per cent. That is one of the reasons why. in a system where one
can qualify f'or a pension after six years, the minimal pensionable
age will be set at 55.
The minister boasts that this bill will save Canadian
taxpayers $3 million.

The Hon. the Speaker: I must informi the honourable senator
that his time is up. but with leave t'rom the Senate. he may
continue.
Sonne Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Senator Simard: Thank you. honourable senators.
If the minister and the govemment had been responsible. they
might have given us a chance 10 consult the public and the
experts and study this bill over the summer and into the faîl.
What is the hurry? Why not take the lime t0 really consider this
legislation? We should first look mbt privatizing and possibly
raising the minimum pensionable age not bo 55 but rather bo 60.
They would probably have saxed more than $3 million that way.

July 12, 1995

JuIy 12, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

SENATE DEBATES

Why not look at equity at the same time? The members of
both Houses of Parliament are paid the same: $64,000 per year.
However, there is a discrepancy between the House of Commons
and the Senate. I just gave you the contribution and accrual rates.
Why not have parity in that respect as well? Why should MPs be
entitled to full pension after 19 years and senators after 25? Why
not agree on 20, 10 or 25 for everyone?
Minister Eggleton was in a hurry. He was in a hurry because,
as he said, we are under pressure. If you are going to do
something

-

[English]
0<14m4o

- why botch the operation? Why not take the necessary time
and do a good job?
Although the National Citizens Coalition is not my favourite
organization, their recommendation to look at the total MP
compensation package - salary, benefits, and tax-free
allowance, to which my colleague Senator Corbin alluded earlier
makes sense to me and to many other Canadians.
The previous government, and the government previous to
that, the Trudeau government, said that senators only exist to
finalize their work and live according to the Constitution. They
believe that they can send us bills as late in June as they wish,
and we will rubber stamp them according to their wishes.
The Trudeau, Mulroney and now Chrétien governments do not
bother with senators unless it is time for us to pass their bills.
They do not consider our problems or the inequities of the
system, whether those problems involve tax free allowances,
salaries or other matters.
Certainly, we need to control our deficit, but there are better
ways to do that than those shown by this government in
Bill C-85. With this bill, the government has botched the
operation. The minister tried to justify the early passage of this
bill because people were concerned about this issue, and it was
controversial. The pensions of members of Parliament have been
controversial for a long time, and they will continue to be as long
as the government continues to shirk its responsibility to do
things properly.
I invite colleagues on both sides of the house to vote against
this bill, as I will. Rather, let us do the job properly and have a
complete, detailed and serious study of this issue.
Hon. Eymard G. Corbin: Honourable senators, Bill C-85
deals with pensions for members of the House of Commons and
the Senate. It also lays down rules, chapter and verse, for former
members of either house with respect to double dipping.
The government of the day is using double standards, as have
previous governments, with regard to public policy. It says, with
the approval of both Houses of Parliament, that former members
who take other employment for which they are remunerated
more than $5.000 will not have access to their pension benefits
from the members of Parliament pension account.

2015
2015

We are set up on a pedestal, illustrating the morality and the
righteousness of this policy. We are supposed to applaud
ourselves for voluntarily committing our principles toward that
noble aim.
However, governments never apply that policy to their
employees. There is a basic unfairness with respect to the way
the government deals with taxpayers' money. Of course, our
pensions are, in part, paid from the general revenue of Canada;
from tax money. However, that is the case as well with the
pensions of the RCMP, members of the Canadian Armed Forces
and other civil servants of ail shapes and colours who can move
from job to appointment to job under the umbrella of the federal
govemment, without ever having to forgo a pension earned in a
previous occupation in the government. That is what I call a
basic unfaimess.
We are set up as models of what fiscal responsibility is aIl
about, but it does not go beyond the Senate and the House of
Commons. No consideration is given to future impacts or effects,
many of them negative. that this could have on former members
of the Senate or the House of Commons. We are not ail in the
same fortunate position when we leave this place or, indeed,
when we come to it. I am one of the rare senators who can say
that I have no other source of income but what I earn here.
Senator Prud'homme: Me, too.
Senator Corbin: That is fine. Let us ail get up and join in the
chorus. I welcome you.
[Translation]

Senator Hébert: I am poorer than you are, Senator Corbin.
Senator Corbin: It may be so. Poverty knows no limit.
You distracted me for a moment, but what I mean is that
members and senators are being used [English]

- former members of the House of Commons and former
senators. I realize that with regard to senators, it rarely happens,
but in terms of the House of Commons it does happen currently.
The thrust of my intervention today is that that sort of policy
consideration is never applied to civil servants, and especially
top civil servants, the highest paid in the country. They can retire
and serve under contract with the government thereafter, and
continue to benefit from income from the government. They can
retire from the Armed Forces and work in another department of
government while continuing to receive their pensions.
In fact, someone comes to mind right now who is well known
to ail honourable senators. After serving Canada overseas, he got
another job in Canada and, subsequently, a third job in Canada.
Ail three jobs were with the government. He is now collecting
three pensions. Over and above that, since his retirement from his
last job. he does contract work with the government while
collecting aIl three pensions. Where is the basic. primitive,
elementary justice in that kind of policy?

0

(14s0

We, as senators or members of the House of Commons, either
earn our pay and our pension or we do not. If we earn it, we are
entitled to it, the same way that any civil servant in this country
is entitled to it. I find it and I have always found it - and I will
use a term which may be exaggerated - rather two-sided to send
someone to the Federal Court, or other such position. after he or
she bas been a member of the House of Commons, from which
they will collect very good pay and receive a pension on top of
that. I am not opposed to putting some respectable order into that
area, but when will the government apply the policy that it
imposes on former members of Parliament to its own employees?
That is the question.
We are talking about fiscal responsibility and budgetary
restraint. The one area where the government could save
significant amounts of money is the area of multiple pensions
collected by extremely wealthy people in the service of the
Government of Canada.
I think it behooves the government of the day to look into that
matter and to present a proposai to Parliament that will apply to
those people the same policies it wants to impose upon members
of Parliament. Otherwise, il loses its credibility. It is as simple
as that.
Hon. J. Michael Forrestall: Honourable senators, I have
remained somewhat silent and outside of this matter. Senator
Corbin talks about uniqueness. I have something unique about
my situation as well. I relate il only to draw attention to it in the
hope that in the next round of amendments it is seen as a
deficiency in the act and is corrected. While, to my knowledge, it
affects only me, it could very well affect aIl or any of us now and
in the future.
I paid into the parliamentary pension program from 1965 until
1988. I am not - and this is important to bear in mind- a
member of the Senate pension plan. I cannot pay into il. You say,
"Well, your pensions are paid up in full from your past service."
Yes, that is true. and there is no doubt about it. If I were to leave
here tomorrow, I could draw a full pension fully indexed.
Hon. Marcel Prud'homme: Only if you are over the age
of 60.
Senator Forrestall: You know how old I am. You know I am
old enough to enjoy that benefit, Senator Prud'homme.
If the honourable senator, who is my dear friend, wants to
make a speech, I suggest he go ahead and make one. I want to
make a point because on two occasions in the past he has
misinterpreted my position in this matter. Indeed, he is one of the
reasons I felt it necessary to get on my feet today to try to set the
record straight.
My problem is this - and I hope il will be corrected: Should
I retire and draw my pension, that would be fine. and there would
be no problem at ail. Should I die - I am a widower now; my

1Senialor Corbin

last wife passed away some four or five years ago - my pension
is paid up. Should I remarry, however, my new spouse will not be
entitled to that pension should I die. I cannot pay into the pension
here. If I were able to pay into the pension here in the Senate and
remarry, my spouse would be entitled to the pension and ail the
benefits. Because I would have married her after I had finished
fully paying up my pension, she would not be entitled to reach
back. Only those spouses who participated in the development of
that plan are eligible to participate. There were two and one, God
rest her soul, passed away. Presumably, the other one, under
existing law, is entitled to 100 per cent of that pension. and in
fact we separated and divorced some 20 years ago.
I cite this because it is not fair. Should I remarry, I cannot offer
a spouse any pension protection. When I die, my estate will be
credited with whatever is due me in one year. The government
then takes back their share with interest and everything else.
What is left over goes to my estate. It is taxed in the year of
death - that is, being dead, I cannot reach forward or back so it
is taxable in that year. I will lose half to the government and
another half of the half to the government through income tax. In
any event, then there is the little bit of cash left that goes into the
estate. That. presumably, would go to my beneficiaries.
Do honourable senators see the little loophole that is left?
I cannot offer a spouse the protection of a pension. I think il is a
God awful thing. For those in the press who love to crow about
this golden handshake we get, I invite them to take a look at my
situation. I paid into the plan for 25 years or so. If I stay here to
age 75, how much longer will I live after I get it? I will only
draw a minuscule portion of the amount I paid into the plan. That
is fine because I did not pay il in to draw it down when I got
older: I paid it in to protect myself when I needed earning
protection, as well as to aid my widow and my family.
I have tried to pinpoint a deficiency that I hope will be
corrected. I hope my honourable friend understands that my
position is slightly different from a lot of others, although there
may be others with the same problem.
Senator Prud'homme: Honourable senators, first, I should
like to say to my good friend Senator Forrestall that i have no
disagreement with his position. That has been my position ail
along.
Early in the 1980s, I was the chairman of the House of
Commons Members' Services Committee. AIl those new
members who came after me who wanted the glory of the press
for their stance on double dipping never did anything about
double dipping - they only talked about it. I did something
about it. I made recommendations to the House of Commons in a
report dealing with double dipping. I hear now that those
recommendations form the foundation of the present bill, some
10 years after my recommendations were submitted.
I have never been credited by the press. or The Hill Times, or
anyone else for having done that work. but it is now part of the
bill before us today. It is a recommendation which was made a
long time ago. I say that to set the record straight.

July 12, 1995

July 12, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

SENATE DEBATES

Yes, I have doubts about that situation. Now I see that I may
eventually have some success here in the Senate. I have listened
to Senators Corbin, Simard and Forrestall. Since I arrived here I
have been asking for an open discussion on all the questions of
double dipping - not the double dipping of the members of
Parliament or the pension plan of the members of Parliament,
while this immense bureaucracy hides behind us and says. "Look
at those people." The entire question of pension plans should be
looked into. What a good area of study for a committee of
senators!
a(1500)

I am very taken by this because one senator who did not know
anyone in Ottawa and who lives far from here fell ill, and I was
available to take him to the military hospital. Again, we have the
demagogy. I hope that someday The Hill Times will write about
that because everybody should know about it.
We eliminated all the VIPs who were hiding behind members
of the House of Commons and the Senate. Members of both
Houses who come from across Canada do not have a medical
doctor in Ottawa. However, the privilege was abused. You would
know the importance of a bureaucrat or his wife or children by
whether or not he was allowed to go to the military hospital.
It reminds me of the War Measures Act. You were known to be
important if your spouse could have a young military escort
while shopping at Loblaws. People who had never shopped at
Loblaws before started shopping there with their escorts to show
they were more important than their neighbour in Rockcliffe.
That was in 1970. You were important if you had military
protection; you were not if you had none. Imagine the big talk on
the cocktail circuit in Ottawa.
Members of the House of Commons and senators are being
deprived of a service they should expect. If you defend that view,
who will be on your side? One should be able to defend a good
cause. If it is indefensible, of course one should stay quiet.
As I look around this chamber, I can name all of those senators
who live in Manitoba, British Columbia and other regions of
Canada outside Ottawa. When they become ill, they are
immediately taken to the military hospital. That sane treatment
was extended to top-level civil servants. That medical program
then became a VIP program and was extended to encompass
more and more people. Honourable senators, the reason it is
being eliminated is because it became too big and too expensive
to provide.

We have never talked openly about this situation, but the time
has come to do so. Senator Graham always listens to what I say.
I should like him to know that I share the opinion of Senator
De Bané. Senator De Bané, who is a better informed person than
I, having been a minister of the Crown, understands the
implications of this measure, and he asked very pertinent
questions of Mr. Eggleton when he appeared before our
committee. I urge honourable senators to read those
interventions.
I should like to draw the attention of honourable senators to
another matter. It has to do with pensions. At times I feel that

2017
2017

those who are most interested in pensions are those who live in a
common-law relationship. I will explain.
I am concerned about widows who will, more and more, serve
in the House of Commons and Senate. My concern does extend,
however, to bachelors, like myself, and divorced people. I am
appalled at what goes on in the lives of those who enter into
common-law relationships.
Let us take the example of a member of Parliament who has
been married for 25 years. In the old days, a good wife would
support her husband and rejoice the first night her husband was
elected as a member of the House of Commons. They faced the
prospect of a sharing a new life together. Who created that
member of the House of Commons? It was the so-called "good
wife" at home with the children who could combine family life
and at the same time be involved in the political life of her
husband.
Let us look at what can happen in a situation such as that. The
husband, after becoming a member of Parliament, may spend
10 years in the House of Commons. During that career, he may
leave his wife and enter into a common-law relationship. I want
honourable senators to consider what will happen to his pension
in those circumstances. What happens, in fact, is that the woman
with whom he has entered into that common-law relationship
will be entitled to one-half to three-quarters, or even more, of his
pension.
There is now talk in the House of Commons of including those
involved in same-sex relationships being entitled to all the
pension benefits that accrue to those who have shared traditional
relationships. That question will be raised all across the land.
I remember one night in the House of Commons being called
to vote at around eleven o'clock in the evening on amendments
to the pension plan for veterans. I was a young member then. I
thought it was not fair. I am talking about politicians being aware
of the human side of an issue. Who built his career around his
family life? Who gets drunk on the proceeds from the pension
plan? The veteran who risked his life for his country is entitled to
an adequate pension.
I remember having discussions with Marcel Lambert at night
over long dinners. I remember an exchange between him and
Bégin. It was not the best exchange, so I dare not to repeat it
here. She objected, and he called her "une cocotte."
Honourable senators I ask you: Is it fair that a woman need
only be involved in a common-law relationship with a veteran
for one year in order to be entitled to be receive his pension? The
lady who waited, cried and agonized during the war for 10, 20 or
30 years finds herself at the end of his career eliminated from a
pension by the new spouse.
My father told me about the greatest word in the English
language when I learned English at university. That word is
"fair." He said, "Remember that word. It is an important word.
When you talk to people, look them straight in the eyes and say.
'Is it tair to treat people that way?'

1 share the opinion of Senators Forrestali. Corbin, and Simard.
Something should be done. Seeing that no one is interested and
not many people are listening. we wiii pass the bill. but I wili
vote against it just on principle. However, I need sorneone else 10
stand up with me 10 ask for a count. 1 will vote against il. It is
something that should be studied. Let me put it this way: I will
think about voting against if.
Pass the law if you want. but let us have a commitment that the
Senate wili look int il, because the Senate has the abiiity to
show gentleness and kindness and patience 10 deai with such
maîters. Lt is not given 10 demagogy like we have seen in the
House of Commons. Peacefuily we can study the question of the
First Nations, and peacefuliy we can study the pension plan. That
is what the Senate does best.
Can you imagine the House of Commons .studying euthanasia
as the Senate bas done with Senator Carstairs and others? Can
you imagine the House of' Commons doing that study across
Canada and the demagogy that would be involved? That is why il
is important that the Senate should deai with these questions.
If honourabie senators read the bill carefuily. they wili be
surprised at what they may ieamn. There are rnany little surprises
in il. I do not think they are fair.
1 have no fear about that. 1 contributed 10 the plan in the House
of Commons. When I carne from the House of Commons 10 the
Senate here. 1 was not a defeated candidate. 1 was aiready a
candidate. 1 arn the oniy one who did not believe I couid be
eiected. but everyone said 1 wouid he the first or second t0 be
elecîed. My saiary went down, but 1 arn not cornpiaining.
* (1510)>

people. 1 ask honourable senators 10 stand up and speak on this
subject. That is what 1 arn doing.
1 ask Senator Fairbairn 10 consider sorne ot my proposais. The
time rnay have corne to bring an end 10 this misapprehension
arnong the Canadian population about the pensions of members
of Parliament. Hundreds of thousands of people hide behind us.
happy that the debate is about us and 1101 about them.
POINT 0F ORDER
Hon. Eymard G. Corbin: Honourable senators, 1 rise on a
point of order. Perhaps honourable senators would allow me 10
put a question 10 the Leader of the Governrnent in the Senate. or
10 the Deputy Leader of the Governrent.
1 noticed that neither the Leader of the Governrnent noir the
Deputy Leader of the Governiment in the Senate rushed to their
feet at the end of Senator Prud'homme's speech. However, a
number of senators - namely, Senators Simard, Forrestali.
myseif. and Prud*homrne - have raised a number of points and
issues concerning policy considerations. There is a disposition
today. atIclast by most of us. to let the bis proceed through third
reading and on their way 10 Royal Assent.
Honourabie senators, 1 believe serious and valid points have
been raised. In view of our wiiiingness 10 help the govemment
pass this legisiation. it wouid be reassuring if we could have a
commitment - pcrhaps that 15 100 powerful a word - or a
guarantee that the nîatters raised hy the aforernentioned
honourabie senators wilI be taken up at the table of power, and at
the council of ministers. as an expression of our serious
reservations about loophoies in the iaw. and about 100 ioose a
policy as it appiies to pensions and other maîters. That is ail we
want.

That was rny choice, but I lost $40,000 a year in incorne by going
from the House of Commons to the Senate. Why shouid we flot
say that 10 the public'? Forty thousand dollars less t0 do the same
work that 1 did in the House of Commons.

Honourabie senators, we are not here 10 play political games.
Indeed, if we so wished. we couid force a vote on the issue. That
is not our intention, but 1 think we have perforrned our duties in
the brief period of time aiiotted tor us 10 do so.

With respect 10 my pension. as Senator Forrestali said. "Big
deai." I wiii receive rny pension at age 75, and il wili start to be
indexed at 75. That is no big deai when you are 60. I arn not
compiaining; 1 arn just reporting the difference.

Some of these rnatters were raised in prior sittings of
Parliarnent. It seerns that we are speaking 10 those paintings on
the wail. Nothing ever happens.

Do honourable senators know - and I hope The Hill Timnes
wiil report this fact - that we are paying for the pensions in the
House of Commons'? Check the facîs. How inany peuple survive
the Senate after 75? Where does that money go'? It goes 10 the
general fund. There is not one fund for the Senate and one fund
for the House of Commons.
No one answers these questions, honourabie senators. and yet
we wiIl pass another bill. There was no study in the House of'
Commons - at least not a serlous one. The members there were
told to hurry up before the summer recess so that they wouid not
be embarrassed by difficuit questions during the surnrer. That
was the probiem. It was the same with other bis. When you start
going 10 picnics in the summer. you rnay be quesîioned by

1Senatoi- Piud'hoinne

1

Can we have a cornritrnent today from the Leader of the
Government in the Senate that these wiil not remain dead words?
Some Hon. Senators: Hear, hear!
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, in reply 10 Senator Corbin and other
senators. I can certainly give a commilmrent that these wiIl not
remain dead words. As senators know, an active and probably
public debate wiii be carried on with respect to some of these
issues in the rnonths ahead.
1 say 10 Senators Corbin. Prud'homme. Forrestail and others
that 1 will transmit some of these suggestions to coileagues who
are considerin- the broader issues at this moment.

July 12, 1995

July12,

SENATE DEBATES

995 ENAT DEBTES2019

1 can assure honourable senators that 1 have watched the
legisiative process as it has developed in a slightly different way
in the last two years in the House of Commons, which is fine.
However, in this same period of time. we have also witnessed
that the backlog has flot been eased. for bas the process heen
streamlined.

pensions were commenced in the Senate, and they were
welcomed by the government.

1 arn sure that Senator Murray, ahead of me, often made this
suggestion: Can we flot introduce some of this legislation in the
Senate? Obviously, some matters cannot be introduced in this
place, but others can. This is something 1 have been discussing,
and 1 amn quite prepared to do so even more vigorously.

Is it your pleasure, honourable senators, to adopt the motion?

In the first week of this Parliament, two initiatives have turned
out to be landmark efforts. One was the Special Senate
Cornmittee on Euthanasia and Assisted Suicide headed by
Senators Neiman and Lavoie-Roux, and the other was the speciai
reference to the Standing Senate Committee on Aboriginal
Peoples of the long overdue question of aboriginal veterans'
pensions.

Motion agreed to and bill read third time and passed, on
division.

In any event our standing committees are adequately set up to
deal with some of these issues and present the kinds of reports
that provide a body of evidence and also an opportunity for
Canadians to bring forward their ideas. It is a proposition that 1
arn enthusiastic about, and I will carry it forward as best 1 can.

Hon. B. Alasdnir Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government) moved the third reading of Bill C-92, to amend
the Canadian Wheat Board Act.

The Hon. the Speaker: It was moved by the Honourabie
Senator Graham, seconded by the Honourable Senator Stanbury,
that this bill be read a third time now.

Hon. Senators: Agreed.
An Hon. Senator: On division.

CANADIAN WHEAT BOARD ACT
BILL TO AMEND-THIRD READING

Motion agreed to and bill read third time and passed.

Hon. Marcel Prud'homme: Honourable senators, I know
CRIMINAL CODE
there are things we can do. Senator Fairbaimn pointed them out. 1,
for one, will take the words of the Leader of the Government in
BILL TO AMEND-THIRD READING
the Senate, and I will be satisfied when 1 see somnething coming.
We have the authonity if we want to use it. Ail we need is the
Hon. B.
Graham
leadership. I cannot exercise such authority by myseif. I cannot Government)Alasdairthird reading (Deputy Leader of the
moved
of Bill
even find someone to second my motion. However, if other Criminal Code (self-induced intoxication). C-72, to amend the
senators rise, I would second the motion that this matter be sent
to the appropriate committee.
Motion agreed to and bill read third time and passed.
If need be, we wili strike a special committee solely for the
purpose of looking into the question of pensions and double
OLD AGE SECURITY ACT
dipping. This would demystify for the Canadian population what
CANADA PENSION PLAN
this issue is aIl about. It would show them what double dipping
CHILDREN'S SPECIAL ALLOWANCES ACT
means, who receives it, who should be deprived of it. Why
UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE ACT
should we, in the interests of Canada, continue to allow double
dipping for someone who would otherwise flot offer their
BILL TO AMEND-THIRD READING
services to Canada?
Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
0 <i1520)
Government) moved the third reading of Bill C-54, to amend
I would be more than happy to know that the minister concurs the Old Age Security Act, the Canada Pension Plan, the
Special Allowances Act, and the Unemployment
in this line of thinking, and to have her commitment that we need Children'sAct.
Insurance
flot refer this matter back to cabinet. She may refer everything
back to cabinet, but then she will refer it back to us again, saying
Motion agreed to and bill read third time and passed.
that the message has been sent but that there is not much action.
We can act here. I was watching ail senators while I was
speaking. Senator Fairbairn, you may be surprised at the number
of people who will see you privately to comment on this matter.
I suspect that this same opinion is heid by a few members of your
own party, a few members of the officiai opposition, and others.
I must cali myself an "other."

[Translation]

Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators. to restate the point I
made. the initiatives on euthanasia and on aboriginal veterans'

The Senate proceeded to consideration of the fourteenth report
of the Standing Senate Committee on Legal and Constitutional

ELECTORAL BOUNDARIES READJUSTMENT
BILL, 1995
REPORT O COMMITEE ADOPTED

Affairs (Bill C-69. motion of the Honourable Senator Graham.
seconded by the Honourable Senator Hebert). presented in the
Senate on Tuesday. July Il. 1995.

Hon. Gérald-A. Beaudoin moved the adoption of the report.
The Hon. the Speaker: The Honourable Senator Beaudoin.
seconded by the Honourable Senator Tremblay, moved that this
report be now adopted. Is il your pleasure, honourable senators.
to adopt the motion'

Some Hon. Senators: Agreed.
The Hon. the Speaker: Carried.
Senator Beaudoin: Honourable senators, on Monday. July 10,
1995, the committee

-

The Hon. the Speaker: You are making a speech on this bill.
Senator Beaudoin: Is it too late'?
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, if Senator
Beaudoin had a speech to make, then the report would flot have
been adopted. The report was adopted in the usual way. but the
procedure was interrupted. You have a speech to make on this
issue.
[En glish]
Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourable senators. Senator Beaudoi n clearly
indicated when he rose that he wanted to speak to this order. and
perhaps the Honourable Speaker niissed the tact that he was on
his l'cet.
Senator Berntson: He changed his mi.

It is too late.

Senator Oliver: He does not need to speak now.

Senator Beaudoin: 1 will respect the rules. What do the rules
say'?
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, the normal
procedure is that when 1 place the motion before the house. if no
one gets up, I say. "Adoptée. Carried." But if someone gets up at
that point, then the speech proceeds.
Senator Beaudoin: 1 always follow the rules.

The Hon. the Speaker: The speech can proceed. That is the
normal practice.

Hon. Lowell Murray: Honourable senators, I do not know the
intention of my friends opposite. However. 1 sit fairly close to the
Speaker's chair. and I do flot think anybody could have
misunderstood what was happening. The report of the Standing
Senate Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs was
called. Senator Beaudoin. the chairman. stood and said. '1 move
the adoption of this report." The Speaker put the motion \'ery

clearly and asked if it was the pleasure of the house to adopt this
motion; we said -Yes- and he said. "Adoptée. Carried."
Did my friends opposite miss ail that?
Senator Graham: No, we did flot. Honourable senators, we
clearly did flot miss it because Senator Carstairs would like to
speak as the sponsor of Bill C-69. However. out of courtesy
obviously, becatise there was an indication from the chairman of
the committee that he wanted to speak on this order, she waited
to hear what the chairman had to say. That clearly was his
intention. 1 watched him very carefully and he was rising to
make his speech and, out of courtesy, Senator Carstairs waited;
otherwise, she would have been on her feet.
Clearly. we have been waiting for the chairman of the
committee to follow his intentions. that is. to speak on his motion
to adopt the report.
Senator Murray: Honourable senators. again 1 have to say
this: Others may have a different view. but in my opinion the
moment has passed. Senator Beaudoin moved that the report be
adopted. The Speaker put the motion clearly. -Is it the pleasure
of the Senate to adopt the motion?" We said "Yes," and we were
about to move on to the next item.
There was no noise in the chamber at the timc. There is 110
reason to believe that senators could flot hear the motion being
put. The moment has passed.
Senator Hébert: We saw him.
An Hon. Senator: He said he would go by the rules.
Senator Murray: 1 am sorry. honourable senators. My friends
saw what happened. and it did flot happen in great haste. Senator
Beaudoin moved the adoption of his report.
Senator Hébert: He started his speech.
Senator Murray: The Speaker put the motion. It was flot
done in great haste. 1 think the moment has passed. The report
has been adopted.
Senator Graham: Honourable senators. there are various
ways to skin a cat. Obviously, a bit of parliamentary trickery is
being suggested here.
Senator Oliver: The Speaker put the question.
Senator Graham: 1 would like to ask, as an honourable
gentleman who presides over the Legal and Constitutional
Affairs Committee with great distinction. whether it was the
intention of Senator Beaudoin to speak on his motion?

Senator Oliver: He does not have to answer the question. He
is flot on the stand.
Senator Hébert: He will not answer.

July 12, 1995

July 12. 1995

SENATE DEBATES

SENATE DEBATES

Hon. John Lynch-Staunton (Leader of the Opposition):
First, he does not have to answer. This is not Question Period.
Second, the Speaker himself ruled that the report had been
adopted. It is not a decision of our side; nor is it a decision taken
on the government side. When Senator Beaudoin rose, the
Speaker reminded him that if he wanted to speak, he would need
leave because the report had already been adopted.
Therefore, Your Honour, the report has been adopted. Can you
clarify that for us?

2021
2021

introduces second reading, moves it, adopts it and then speaks to
it. Why we do this, I do not comprehend.
In the chamber from which I gained my experience, you would
move second reading but certainly never adopt it. Yet,
consistently, that is what happens when I stand to speak at second
reading. Everyone speaks on it. Therefore, I am assuming that
that same procedure is in effect here. I have been waiting to hear
from Senator Beaudoin and then I would speak.
[Translation]

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, I did not rise to
ask for leave. The normal procedure is that I put the question; if
I do not see anyone standing, I say, "Adoptée, Carried."
However, I am sure honourable senators will all agree - and we
have always agreed - that if someone stands even after that,
they are allowed to speak. I was certainly prepared to allow
Senator Beaudoin to speak. Indeed, I asked him if he wished to
speak on this motion, at which time I sat down and he rose. I am
following our normal practice here, which is that we do not cut
off an honourable senator arbitrarily simply because I have called
a motion, if someone rises at that point.

Senator Prud'homme: Honourable senators, I am one of
those people who often find themselves in a situation similar to
the one we are seeing today. Since I am pretty far back, by the
time you notice I am on my feet, you have practically said the
word "carried." I realize that as the Speaker, it is your job to
recognize those who wish to speak, and if no one wishes to
speak, the motion is carried.
I have noticed that for a long time, both under the speakership
of Senator LeBlanc and your own, which have both been
excellent, I may say.

0(1530)

[English]

Senator Lynch-Staunton: Your Honour, did you not only call
it but declare it adopted?
The Hon. the Speaker: I did. However, I have done that on
previous occasions, as I think have previous Speakers. If
someone rises at that point, he or she will be heard. My view is
that if Senator Beaudoin wishes to speak, he is entitled to speak.
Senator Oliver: Not without leave.
Senator Prud'homme: Honourable senators, I rise on this
point.
Hon. Sharon Carstairs: I should like to speak on this point as
well.
Hon. William M. Kelly: Honourable senators, I should like to
rise on a very brief point of order.
I take exception to the statement that we are looking at
political trickery. I think that is beneath anyone here. There is no
trickery. We have a procedural argument. Everyone understands
procedural arguments.
I take exception to the reference to political trickery. It is hard
to imagine any motive for doing that.
Senator Carstairs: Honourable senators, it was my
understanding this afternoon that Senator Beaudoin was to speak
to this committee report. It was my intention to respond, after
hearing his remarks.
I have introduced bills for second reading in the past. I must
say. the procedure in this chamber is foreign to me - one

I want to be sure that I am understood. Senator Carstairs is
absolutely right. Very often, Your Honour, you do your duty, but
you do it too fast. Yesterday, I said that I wanted to speak on this
bill and I expected to speak on it last night. Last night I indicated
to Senator Graham that I wanted to speak on it. I am sure that
Senator Carstairs was of the same feeling. It was quite a surprise
to me to see such an important bill passed so suddenly.
I wish to repeat what Senator Corbin said about Senator
Beaudoin last night, when I think Senator Beaudoin's dignity was
hurt: His committee has done almost 50 per cent of the work of
the Senate in the last year and a half.
I am sure he was ready to speak.
Senator Gigantès: He was on his feet.
Senator Prud'homme: Honourable senators will understand
that from where I sit I cannot sec everything. I am sure he was
ready, so much so that he asked Your Honour, "What is your
ruling?" Why would he ask about your ruling, Your Honour, if he
had no intention of speaking?
He said that he would abide by what Your Honour said. That
means he intended to speak on his own report. He would not
have said that if he had no intention of speaking.
[Translation]

My father taught me the rudiments of logic. According to
simple logic, it is obvious that he was about to speak. If he does
not speak, there are other senators who wish to be recognized,
including Senator Carstairs and myself, since I have been on this
bill since it was first tabled.

[En glisli]
in a spirit of amicability. I suggest we withdraw ail the names.
1 did flot like the word 'trickery" either. Let us have good spirit
in this chamber before the summer break.
Knowing Senator Graham. 1 am sure he did îlot mean t0 say
-trickery."' Senator Murray is a stubborn man, we aIl know. I
think we should have the dehate and proceed in an orderly
fash ion.
Some of us had intended to speak on this issue.

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, we are reaching
the end of a session. when the atmosphere always warms up. Let
us think back to other occasions. even earlier than today. when 1
called a vote and Senator Prud'homme rose after I called it
wanting to speak. 1 think the standard practice has been that even
when the Speaker says, Adoptée, Carried." if someone gels up
prior to our moving t0 another item, then that person is
recognized and allowed 10 speak.
Therefore. Senator Beaudoin is entitled to speak if hie wishes
to do so at this point.

Senator Lynch-Staunton: Your Honour. 1 am flot one to
challenge a Speaker's ruling. 1 want to be careful of my wording.
Your Honour did say, "Adoptée, Carried,- after which you
resumed your seat and Senator Beaudoin got up to speak and you
ahlowed. having said "Adoptée. Carried.- that hie would need
leave to revert to the item. We have left the item and are ready t0
proceed to another one.
You are now telling us that. on occasions. saying. "~Adoptée,
Carried' does not mean what we think it means. 1 do not want to
go any tarther than that. I hope that if we accepi thal description
we are flot setting a precedent to the effect that the sanie words
will mean diffèrent things on different occasions.
By going along with your suggestion. Your Honour. 1 [car that
we may ignore the real meaning of the words "Adoptée.
Carried."'

Senator Beaudoin: Honourable senators, it is true that 1
intended to speak on this matter. There is no doubt about that.
However. if it is said that what is important is the words that are
pronounced in terms of the record of' the house and, if you said
1ýcarried," then it is carried. However. if you want to go back to
this question oh speeches for Senators Beaudoin and Carstairs.
then. obviously. we have to have the leave of the house to do so.
That is pure logic.
If il is the wish of the house. I will speak. I understand that
Senator Carstairs will also speak. However. we have to have the
permission of' the house to do so.

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators. I can assure you
that that has flot been the practice.
In future before I cali for the vote 1 will ask. -~Does any
honourable senator wish Io speakY" It will slow the procedure.
but il îi~na 1)1 vcrt problenis of' this nature in the future. I w iii no

1 Senator

Pi ud hou huiiie
]

longer automatically say. "Carried. Adoptée." 1 wilI ask: "Docs
any other honourable senator wish to speak?,-' aller which 1 will
call for the vote.
If we had moved t0 another item the case would be different.
In this case we have flot yet moved to another item. The practice
has certainly been to hear any senator who rises. even though 1
have repeated a second time. after the speeches, -Carried,
Adoptée."
Senator Lynch-Staunton: Your Honour. in the spirit of
cooperation and because we are flot the ones who are bogged
down by narrow definitions and narrow legal interpretations, as
we have been subjected to. we wiII certainly abide by so-called
tradition and allow the item to be called and discussed.
This is a controversial item. Obviously, we feel strongly about
it. However. controversial or not, we do hope that Your Honour's
suggestion that you will add the words "Does any honourable
senator wish to speak- before actually declaring the item carried
will avoid a repetition of this circumstance in the future.
0(1540)

Perhaps before we proceed Senator Graham would like to
suggest to the editors of Hansard that they misunderstood two
particular words and hie really meant to say something else.

Senator Graham: 1 would be happy to withdraw.
[Translation]
Senator Beaudoin: Honourable senators. on Monday. JuIy 10.
1995. the committee heard testimony from the Honourable Herb
Gray, Solicitor General and Leader of the Government in the
House of' Commons, and [rom Mr. Jean-Pierre Kingsley,
Canada's Chief Electoral Officer. The Honourable Herb Gray
was accompanied by his Parliamentary Secretary. Peter Milliken.
by Mary Dawson, Counsel. and by Professor Beverley Baines of'
Queen's University.
Mr. Gray said that the Electoral Boundaries Readustment
Suspension Act - former Bill C- 18 - ceased 10 have effect on
June 22. 1995, in accordance with its sub-section 2(2). One
purpose of Bill C-69 is to repeal that statute and the Electoral
Boundaries Readjustment Act. R.S.C. 1985. ch. E-3. Bill C-69
ams at establishing a new procedure for the readjustment of'
electoral boundaries. If contains no date for coming mbt force.
Professor Baines stated that the courts do flot become involved
in the passage of legislation. as confirmed by the decision in
Native Wotinen ', Association of Canada v. Canada (1994)
3 S.C.R. 627 and Reference re Canada Assistance Plan (B.C.)
[ 1991] 2 S.C.R. 525. She corroborated the minister's statements
and expressed the view that Bill C-69 is stili on the Order Paper.
The courts interpret statutes on the basis of their wording.
Jean-Pierre Kingsley, Chief Electoral Officer. underlined
potential difficulties should there be an overlap hetween the
current readjustment regime. as set out in the Electoral
Boundaries ReadJustmient Act. and Bill C-69. if the bill were to
he passed later. iii the taîl.

July 11 1995

July12. 995SENATE
DEBATES

Because of the wording of clause 35 of Bill C-69. he did flot
mile out the possibility of legal proceedings against decisions he
may have to make in this regard.
In light of this testimony, the committee feels that some issues
remain obscure, specitically: 1) the legislative process that led to
the debate on Bill C-69-, 2) the intention of the government
expressed in the House of Commons and the Senate in May, June
and July of this year; 3) the repeal of earlier statutes by
Bill C-69; 4) the nature of the validity of action taken under the
previous legisiation and the scope of section 43 of the
Interpretation Act; and 5) the possible effect of Bill C-69 on
section 51 of the Constitution Act, 1867.
These are very important issues, which certainly deserve
further clarification, and committee members said as much at our
meeting on Tuesday.
For instance, there was a discussion on the various aspects of
the Interpretation Act. Professor Baines, who accompanied
Minister Gray. understandahly asked for more time to think about
her answers to certain questions, as did Ms Dawson, a senior
officiai from the Department of Justice.

is repealed, which is one of the things that Bill C-69 provides for.
No witness argued that Bill C-18 had any force and effect. Nor,
as 1 said earlier, did any witness argue that Bill C-69 was dead.
To the contrary, both the minister and the legal expert argued that
it was very much alive.
Throughout our hearings, Senator Lynch-Staunton legitimately
drew the attention of members to the intention of Bill C-18. He
quoted a number of individuals, none of whom argued that the
government would flot be able to introduce a further piece of
legislation, which is what Bill C-69 is. They simply argued, and
rightly so, that if Bill C-69 was flot passed by June 22, 1995, the
earlier process, the EBRA known as E-3, would be in force and
effect and would remain so until it was repealed. That is exactly
what Bill C-69 does.
The Chief Electoral Officer, Mr. Kingsley, appeared before us
and argued very vehemently that that which we were about to
present to him was the worst possible scenario because, with the
EBRA presently in force and effect, and Bill C-69 presently
being debated in the Senate, he would have two ehectoral
processes in place at the same time.
e 15o

The committee is therefore well advised to continue its work.
Honourable senators, that is why the committee recommends
that these issues be examined in depth and that the Standing
Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs hold further
hearings.
[En glish]
Senator Carstairs: Honourable senators, I rise to speak to this
report because 1 think the committee did flot do justice to the
message from the House of Commons in this report. 1 think,
quite frankly, that we are trying to further obfuscate the issue of
Bill C-69.
I wish to spend a few moments on the history of what has
happened. The question before the committee yesterday was
really on whether Bill C-69 was a legal act and whether,
therefore, we should be voting on it. The testimony given was
clear and absolute: Bill C-69 is a legal entity in Parliament at the
present time. 0f that there was no question. No witnesses said
that Bill C-69 was not a legal entity and was flot part of this
parliamentary procedure.
In order to understand the full debate, it is necessary to know
the history. Approximately one year ago, this chamber passed
Bill C-18, which suspended until June 22, 1995 the Electoral
Boundaries Redistribution Act on the statute book as E-3. There
was only one purpose to Bill C-18: Lt suspended the EBRA in
order to allow the development of a new process of
redistribution. That new bill is Bill C-69.
As to the legal status of Bill C-18, it is clear that it has none.
When the Honourable Herb Gray appeared before us, he said it is
spent. When Professor Baines of Queen's University was asked,
she said it was not operational. She went on to say that it is,
however. still on the statute books. and will remain there until it

That became particularly dangerous on or about November 20
when the maps from the present EBRA were distributed and
made officiai and declared. Meanwhile, Bill C-69 was still being
debated. What we have at the present moment is a committee
report which, in my opinion, will allow the Chief Electoral
Officer's nightmare to continue.
Honourable senators, we have heard much about an act that
was passed in 1963, which established, for the first time, an
independent process for the development of electoral boundaries
in Canada. However, it has been an evolutionary process. There
have been changes to that act, as there have been suspensions
each time there has been a census in this country. The hast
changes, having been put into effect in 1987, resulted from a
suspension when the Conservatives formed the govemnment of
this country. There were amendments to the EBRA as a result.
However, at no time has there been a full review of the act. Lt is
that review of the act that brings about Bill C-69.
Honourable seliators, the questions raised in the Senate
committee and in this report based on section 43 of the
Interpretation Act and section 51 of the Constitution do not in
fact deal with Bill C-69 because, if Bill C-69 were passed, it
would flot conflict with either section 43 of the Interpretation Act
or section 51 of the Constitution. Lt is specious.
Section 51 of the Constitution requires that after a census,
taken every 10 years, the process would be triggered to bring
about and institute new ehectoral boundaries. For example, the
census in 1971 established a process. That process was begun.
However, it had not finished in time for the 1972 election, so the
process continued. Lt had not finished for the 1974 election, s0
the process continued. Lt was flot finished until the 1979 election.
No one questioned that section 51 had been violated because it
was clearly recognized that a process was in place and was
proceeding.

In 1995, wc actually have two processes going on. We have
one under the EBRA and we have another under Bill C-69. No
one, in my view. can reasonably say that section 51 of the
Constitution bas flot been attended to. Lt has been clearly
attended to.
Let us look at what would be the eftect. The earliest possible
date in which new boundaries could be proclaimed and have
effect under the present law would be November 20, 1996. If
Bill C-69 were passed. the earliest date would be June 10, 1997.
some seven months later. Are those seven months. between
November of 1996 and June of 1997. critical? What are the
chances of the govemment holding an election in that period of
time? If one looks at the history of parliaments in this country,
flot very Iikely. Every maýjority government in Canada has gone a
minimum of four years and three rnonths. This government will
flot reach four years and three months until November 1997,
considerably after the boundaries put into place by Bill C-69 will
have had force and effect.
Senator Nolin. in committee. raised an important question:
What if thcre is a snap election as a result of the referendum?
Interestingly enough, neither the present legislation nor Bill C-69
would be in effect. We would have to, tight the election under the
boundaries established as a resuit of the 1981 census. That is flot.
therefore. a legitimate question in the sense of -we must leave
the thing atone because then it would put the boundaries
immediately in place." It cannot put those boundaries
immediately in place. the earliest date being November of' 1996.
Having losi aIl oU the legal arguments. the opposition members
of the committee then of' course made reference to the problerns
with Bill C-69. The two provisions which seemi to provide the
greatest amount of difficulty are the ones with respect to the
25 per cent rule, the varianîce plus aiid minus 25 per cecnt, and the
new role of the Speaker.
Honourable senators. if we do flot pass Bill C-69 and we use
the present process for boundary redistribution. it bas a plus or
minus 25 per cent rule. In other words, nothing bas been
achieved. If that is what Conservative senators wish. a change in
the 25 per cent rule. they will flot get it by tossing out Bill C-69,
because they are left with a process in which there is already a
plus or minus 25 per cent rule.
What about the role of the Speaker'? Well, honourable
senators, the role of the Speaker at the present time is that be or
she cornes up with proposaIs for iiîdividuals who will be
representatives on the boundary commissions. Theoretically.
according to the law. he need consult with no one. Balderdash!
He, of course. consults with the party of which he or she is a
member.
There is no guarantee that the Speaker will consult with the
other parties in Parliament. What this act does is to insist that he
do that - a positive, progressive. democratic process. If he does
not do that. then he can be challenged. and no Speaker wants to
be challenged. Lt will îlot be the majority who will challenge him:
it will be the rninority. They inay not win the vote, but they will
ermharrass the Speaker.

[ Seliali Çaisunis

Senator Lynch-Staunton: That is right.
Senator Carstairs: The Speaker will not want that to happen,
therefore. the consultation wi11 take place. Far better that process
than the present one in which members of the House of
Commons can sit around aller the fact. after the maps have been
drawn and the boundanies established. and say. "Oh. but 1 do flot
like my boundary.- If you do flot think that has flot worked,
speak to Mr. Kingsley, and he will give you. chapter and verse.
the number of times that members of Parliament have effected
changes to the legisiation and to the boundaries.
This process that Bill C-69 puts into place, I suggest to you. is
far more protective of the needs of ordinary Canadians than the
bill that is presently the law of this land.
What is really happening here. in my view. is that the majority
in the Senate is using the committee process to prevent a bill
being voted on in the Senate. They are preventing members on
both sides from participating in this debate by putting it into
committee where only 14 members, 8 on one side and 6 on the
other. get the opportunity to participate in the debate. If the
rnaiority had any intention of allowing a new process, why did
they support Bill C-18 in the first place a year ago? If they
honestly did not want a new process - which is a legitimate
point of view and one that Senator Murray bas expressed - then
why did they set up this false body, if you will. a year ago and
suggest that Bill C-18 would allow that process to take place?
Why did they go to the House of Commons, in essence. and say
"Draw up a new bill and spend a year discussing it. developing il
and communicating it'? What was the purpose ot this whole year
if they were flot legitimate about voting on Bill C-69? At least
that would have been clean. neat and honest. Wrong. but at least
honest.
0

(10)
I

Instead, they let the bill corne to us on May 2. They kept it in
this chamber until June 8. some 37 days later. They sent it back
to the House of Commons. When it came back to us, they sent il
to committee. Fair enough. However. it has now been in
committee and corne out of committee, and they still do flot want
to vote on it. Honourable senators, I do not think that is the
honourable thing to do.
This bill has been before cornmittee twice. It need flot go back
a third time. It is the right of honourable senators to vote as their
conscious dictates. and I suggest they do so. If they do flot like
this bill. then vote against it. but do flot hide behind some
committee. Gel it out. Let us flot pretend that this committee is
some judicial body that can somehow or other corne up with a
judicial decision on section 51 of the Constitution Act, 1867. Let
the Supreme Court decide that. if need be. sometime in the
future. We are flot equipped to do that as members of the Senate.
Stop fudging. Stand up and be counted.
MOTION IN AMENDMENT

Hon. Sharon Carstairs: Therefore. honourable senators. I
move. seconded hy Senator Cools:

July 12, 1995
July 12, 1995

SENATE DEBATES
SENATE DEBATES

That the fourteenth report of the Standing Senate
Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs be not now
adopted, but that it be amended by striking out the sixth and
seventh paragraphs and replacing them with the following:
However, as the Honourable Herb Gray noted, any
potential difficulties would be rendered moot by the early
passage of Bill C-69.
Consequently, the Committee recommends that a
message be sent to the House of Commons to acquaint
that House that with respect to its message to the Senate
dated June 20, 1995, regarding Bill C-69, the Senate does
not insist upon its amendments to which the House of
Commons bas disagreed.

Hon. John Lynch-Staunton (Leader of the Opposition): I
should like to ask Your Honour if a member of this chamber can
amend a committee report, or whether we are not limited to
returning the report to the committee for amendment. I ask for a
ruling on that. Can a report of a committee be amended by a
member of this chamber?

The Hon. the Speaker: My advice is that it has been done in
the past. There are precedents for doing so, although I do not
have the precedents at hand.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: Then I will speak to the
amendment. I will not speak to some of the comments made by
Senator Carstairs because they are not only embellishments but
gross exaggerations of our attitude on this bill.
Obviously, we are against Bill C-69. It is a step backward. We
were quite in favour of suspending the Electoral Boundaries
Readjustment Act when the proposal first came up, but we must
remember why the government requested a suspension period to
bring so-called improvements to it.
There was no widespread or even "narrowspread" demand
anywhere in Canada for improvements to the act. The current act
has worked well over the last 30 years. It needs fine tuning; there
is no question about that.
What sparked what has become Bill C-69? It was a request by
certain members of the Liberal Party, particularly from Ontario,
who had just been elected in 1993. Having seen the revised
maps, which had been published, they were terrified that if the
maps were adopted, at the next election they would be running in
ridings completely different from the ones in which they were
elected, and their chances of being defeated would rise
accordingly.

2025
2025

Then Sarkis Assadourian, the member from Don Valley North,
says:
I worked twenty years to get here. Within two months I lost
my seat, which is not fair.
That is exactly what prompted the Government of Canada to
come to Parliament and say, "We must revise the act. Not only
must we revise the act, but it will take us two years to do so,
which will guarantee that whenever the next election is held, it
will have to be held on the boundaries which are already in place
based on the 1981 census." If Bill C-69 had gone through, an
election to be held in 1996 or 1997 would be based on population
figures of 15 or 16 years before, something never before done in
this country.
Not every election has been held on the
figures. For instance, it was impossible for the
be held on the 1971 figures. However, in every
been an election based on the census figures
beginning of that decade.

freshest census
1972 election to
decade there has
computed at the

Bill C-18, in its original form, would not have allowed that.
The dispute was not on the revision of the act. The dispute was
on the suspension period. Not only that, the act was to abolish the
commissions; to dissolve them. We sent the bill back and said,
"No, that is wrong. We feel that is not respecting section 51,
which indicates that once the census figures are known, we
should get moving on the readjustment of the boundaries."
We suggested a date of February 3, 1995 as the outside limit.
The government, with reason, pointed out that their calendar of
parliamentary sittings was such that they would not be able to

meet that, so we agreed on June 22, 1995. It was understood until
June 22, 1995 -

to be more exact, midnight June 21 -

that

once the suspension period came to an end, if there were no
revisions given Royal Assent by the deadline, the old act came
into force once again. Nothing was said, as is being said now,
after June 21, of, "Well, yes, we passed the suspension period,
but the deadline was not really as significant as we told you
between March, 1994 and June 21, 1995. What it really means is
that the bill is still on the Order Paper." We accept that legally it
is still there. In fact it is off, but legally it is still there, so the
government maintains that Bill C-69 can go into effect any time
after it receives Royal Assent, a contention we dispute.
By the way, I mentioned Sarkis Assadourian, and I am sorry to
see what will happen to him if the maps which have been tabled
go into effect, because his riding of Don Valley North disappears.
It will be absorbed by Willowdale and Don Valley East. He has a
problem, but that is one of the inevitable results of any revision.
0(1610)

I am not making this up. This was admitted by members of the
caucus themselves. Let me quote one of them. On May 5, 1994
on a CBC World at Six report on the Senate's approach to
Bill C-18, the reporter, Jean Carter, said:
Many Liberals won seats for the first time in last October's
election. They don't want to fight the next election on new
turf. Other MPs like Sarkis Assadourian from Toronto worry
about their ridings disappearing altogether.

The United Kingdom has a similar system. Perhaps ours was
largely based upon theirs. There are four electoral boundaries
commissions, one each for England, Wales, Scotland and
Northern Ireland. Their guidelines are similar to ours. They have
tolerances and they do not believe in the American system of
"one citizen, one vote." They do it based on the concept we
embrace here. Some ridings are overpopulated, and some are
underpopulated compared to the quotient.

According to the most recent maps. some senior cabinet
ministers will lose their seats, including Norman Lamont in
London, a person wbo is not an insignificant figure in the
Conservative Party. However, flot one member in that country
has gone to bis caucus and asked that the act be revised in order
to retain the old maps. Tbey accept the inevitable, wbicb is that
after every revision. someone will be burt and someone may be
favoured.
Lt is flot the future of 295 members wbich sbould concemr us; it
is the equality, as mucb as possible, of one citizen. one vote
wbicb should preoccupy us at aIl times. If that means affecting
sitting members. that is wbat is known as "rougb justice" and that
is sometbing whicb they must accept.
Certain members of the Liberal Party of the Ontario caucus
would not accept that. For some reason. whicb I arn sure it must
regret, the govemnment went along witb their request, and that is
why Bill C-I 8 was introduced.
This bill was flot the result of perceived or recognized tlaws in
the current act. The currtent act bas worked well. Tbe
commissioners have been well selected and bave been bigbly
respected. Over ail, tbey bave done a good job. Members of the
House of Commons were able to, intervene in the process before
the maps were tabled and will have an opportunity to intervene in
the process prior to the maps being confirmed.
The reason we bave Bill C-18 is simply to answer the
complaints of a limited number of members of one caucus.
Senator Gigantès: You voted for Bi 1 C- 18.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: We voted on Bill C-18 bearing in
mind tbe deadline and witb the assurance thaf once the
suspension period came to an end, the commissions would
continue their work and flot bave to be revived. We made the
assumption that the act would be improved. We also made tbe
assumption that some of the delays - such as tbe provision that
a year must expire before the final proclamation order is
confirmed - could be sbortened.
Wben Mr. Kingsley came before tbe committee,
that, witb the experience of the last 30 years,
tecbnology and knowledge, tbe time necessary for
process could be sbortened. We agreed tbat would be

be told us
witb new
tbe wbole
beneficial.

We neyer tbougbt, as Senator Carstairs bas admitted, tbat we
would see a bill wbere the Speaker of tbe House ot Commons
would be compromised. He is made part of tbe process in sucb a
way that his bands are tied.
Under the preserit system and under the proposed system, there
are tbree members for eacb electoral boundaries commission in
every province and tbe Nortbwest Territories. Tbe chairman is
named by tbe Chiet Justice from amongsf tbe judges in bis
jurisdiction. Tbe otber two are named under tbe current acf by
tbe Speaker of tbe House of Commons.
Nowbere does it say in tbe acf tbat be must consult. 1 am sure
that Mr. Fraser consulIted. 1 arn sure tbat Madame Sauve

[Senator L\ ich -Stiiati

1

consulted. 1 arn sure they must have first consulted their own
political parties. But no matter who they consulted or did flot
consuit, their choices were final and could flot be appealed. The
Speaker was given bis own choice in the long run. Whether a
minority or majority party agreed, there was nothing they could
do about it.
In the proposed bill, the Speaker must consuit because the
appropriate clause says "After consultation, the Speaker will..
Witb wbom will he consult? 0f course, he will consult with A
the parties. However, he will have to flot only consult but get the
approval of the govemrment party. That is because if 20 sitting
members of the House of Commons are unhappy with any one or
many of his choices, tbey can move a motion in the House of
Commons cballenging them.
The goverfiment is suggesting that, wbereas now the Speaker
is independent of political pressure in making bis final choice, be
will benceforth become subject to it; otherwise, bis choices will
no doubt be cballenged.
Lt is ail very well to say that was included to allow the
minority parties to at least express their dissatisfaction.
Senator Murray: That was the explanation given by
Mr. Milliken: real politics. Tbey wanted to get their bands in at
the front end.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: Exactly. The minority parties may
well make representations and make a motion if 20 of them are
so inclined, but we know that it is the majority wbich can decide,
and the majority will certainly decide. In particular. if the
minority parties are unbappy witb the choices, the majority
governiment party will vote the motion down.
Senator Thériault: Wbat about your caucus?
Senator Lynch-Staunton: Tbey will vote it down. Rather tban
baving sitting members who have a vested interest in the process
intervening directly during the end of the initial map-making
process and intervening a second time before the end of the
map-making process, tbey would intervene rigbt at the beginning
s0 that, in effect, the government would name two of the three
commissioners in eacb jurisdiction. right off the bat.
1 have yet to be convinced that this is an improvement in the
law. This is regressive. The wbole purpose of the current act was
to, get rid of gerrymandering. Allowing the govemrment to name
two of the three commissioners is an encouragement to
gerrymandering. Surely, this is one practice we want to stop.
Some Hon. Senators: Hear, bear!
Senator Lynch-Staunton: Where do we stand now? The new
maps, wbicb bad been beld in abeyance by Mr. Kingsley until
June 22, have been tabled in the House of Commons. We are
now approacbing the end of the process. The calendar is as
follows: MPs must respond to the map; and file their oblectiOns
or comnients. if any. by July 22.

July 12, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

When the House of Commons returns on September 18, a
parliamentary committee will listen to these representations, after
which they will be referred, by October 17. to the Chief Electoral
Officer. Then, the Elections Canada re-examination of the
parliamentary committee's report must be completed by
November 16.
These dates can vary by one or two days but, certainly, around
November 21, if this calendar is followed, particularly if the
House of Commons meets on September 18, a draft
representation order will be proclaimed. Whatever the effect of
representations made by MPs, those maps, as determined by the
commissions on November 20, 21 or 22, will be confirmed. They
are final.
We are only a few months away from the end of a process
which, to date, bas cost taxpayers nearly $6 million dollars. That
is not an insignificant figure considering the government's
financial posture. Every penny counts. We are being asked to
throw aside $6 million, scrap a good process and replace it with
one which is regressive and politically charged. It would cost
another $6 million and we would not have as much of a
guarantee that the next election could be held on the boundaries
determined by the 1991 census.

2027

will not pass a new bill and waste $6 million, start the whole
process again and delay the application of the 1991 census
boundaries another seven or eight months."
What the government should have done is, first, accept our
amendments, although we do not dispute their right not to accept
them. At least they could say, "The current process is in place. It
is nearly completed. It will be completed, hopefully, in
November. Let Bill C-69 go into effect after that for the next
revision." At least guarantee completion of the current process
- which, again, I emphasize, is a good one.
We have not heard anywhere - either in the House of
Commons or during the committee hearings over there, in our
chamber or before our committee - any criticism of the process
itself. We have never heard any criticism of any individual
commissioners. We have only heard criticisms from members
and candidates and political parties who feel that certain
readjustments are detrimental to them. However, that is natural,
that is normal, and that is healthy, because it means the
commissions have done their job.

The current process would allow the boundaries based on the
1991 census to come into effect any time after November 1996,
whereas the new process in Bill C-69, were it given Royal Assent
tonight, would take 23 months to come into effect which would
mean we would have to wait until June 1997. Think of that.
Those are key months.

Honourable senators, the point of all this is that we reject the
amendment of Senator Carstairs. We maintain that the report
should be returned to the committee and that it take all the time
needed to study the five points in it. When the committee cornes
back with its final report - whenever that might be - hopefully
by that time, the government will have realized that E-3, the
current act, is a good act and should run its course. If it wants to
change the rules, do not change them in the middle of the game,
change them for the next game.

Yes, we do object to Bill C-69. Yes, we admit that the five
points in Senator Beaudoin's report will occasion a delay in
coming to a decision on Bill C-69. We welcome that because we
know, as does the government, that time is on the side of a better
process, the one which is in effect now.

Hon. Richard J. Stanbury: Honourable senators, I want to
persuade you that it is important to Canada and to the Senate that
this question be resolved now. Will we or will we not pass
Bill C-69, the Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Act, 1995, into
law?

0(1620)

Senator Lynch-Staunton always makes an impressive,
emotional speech. The only problem is that if he were to give
effect to it, he should be sitting in the govemment seats in the
House of Commons. These are all policy questions, which have
already been determined in the House of Commons by the
elected representatives of the people of Canada. It is normal for
us to have important, and sometimes heated, debates about
legislation that is before us. We must, however, always try to
look at the subject dispassionately to see whether we can get
agreement as to how best to serve the Canadian people.

Depending on what we decide today, by the time we come
back in September, we may be less than two months away from
the conclusion of the current process.
I cannot believe that a process which has not been seriously
challenged, and where the individuals involved in its
implementation have only been criticized because of the results
of that implementation, which is perfectly natural, deserves to be
scrapped at any time.
After every readjustment, there are complaints. That is
completely natural. That is the only so-called flaw, if it can be
called that. That is good. It means that the commissioners have
done their jobs even though, as a result, some sitting members
will be affected. Otherwise, if they want to satisfy members which the proposed bill would allow, since they would control
the commissions - then the readjustments would be just
cosmetic.
I cannot believe that if we get to September without passing
Bill C-69. the government would not come to its senses and say,
"We cannot afford to scrap this. We have come this far. and we

To a certain point, we were dealing with this legislation on that
kind of objective basis. When we dealt with Bill C-18, my
colleagues opposite were concerned that the suspension of the
redistribution process provided by Bill C-18 would result in the
next election being held in constituencies the boundaries of
which would not be based on the 1991 census figures. However,
they did not propose that there be a new act.
The opposition made proposals for shortening time periods
and asked that the proposed new legislation be completed as
quickly as possible. They suggested that the new legislation be
drafted, passed through the House of Commons and the Senate
and become law by February, 1995.

Mr. Herb Gray, as Government Leader in the House of
Commons, was quite amenable to changes to address those
concerns. As a matter of fact, I do not recall - and I suspect that
senior senators on the other side would agree - in my
parliamentary experience of over a quarter century any
government house leader of any previous government who has
shown such a desire to cooperate with the Senate in
accommodating their concerns.
Mr. Gray accepted the opposition's proposal to shorten periods
of time in the process. However, he wisely suggested that it was
unrealistic to expect that Parliament could produce the new
legislation by February 1995 and suggested that it probably could
be done by the end of the session in June. That is how the
June 22 date got into Bill C-18.
Agreement was reached and Bill C-18 was passed into law. We
all knew that a new Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Act
would be forthcoming. Pursuant to Mr. Gray's undertaking, the
House of Commons committee was given instructions to proceed
immediately to prepare a new draft bill. They did so under the
leadership of Mr. Peter Milliken. At the government's request,
the House of Commons committee laboriously drafted a
complete bill, as was anticipated by the Senate. That was
Bill C-69.
The government accepted the bill produced by the committee
and introduced it into the legislative process. It went through the
full legislative process in the House of Commons and was
forwarded to the Senate for approval. Mr. Gray was as good as
his word. He supervised the legislative process which provided
the Senate with a bill which had been adopted by a large majority
of the elected members of the House of Commons. There was no
breach of faith on the part of the government.
The reason for delay was that the Senate committee decided,
as it had every right to do, to propose amendments, which
amendments, by and large, would have superimposed the
judgment of the Senate on certain policy matters already
considered by the elected members of the House of Commons.
That step required a return of the amended bill to the House of
Commons. That took time because the House of Commons had
to consider again those policy questions.
They did so, and they confirmed their original judgment,
sending the bill back to the Senate in good time for the Senate to
record its normal reaction - that is, time to send a message to
the House of Commons saying that, in view of the careful
reconsideration by the House of Commons of the policy
questions, the Senate did not insist upon its amendments.
Why do I say that that would be the normal reaction of the
Senate? May I cite you some authorities? Senator Murray said in
July 1986, when he was govemment leader in the Senate:
The modern role of the Senate... is one of persuasion
rather than resorting to the majority in the Senate when the

[ Senalor Stanbury J

elected majority in the other place, after reflection, has
taken a different position.
In committee when I used that quote Senator Murray said,
"after reflection," but surely there is no doubt about there being
reflection in this case. The amendments were sent, reconsidered
and returned.
In June 1986, he said:
There is no justification in the world, except mischief and
partisan politics, for delaying this bill any further.
In October 1987, he said:
The 19th century rights of the Senate to defeat legislation
coming from the elected house have fallen into disuse and
this is happily so in a democratic country.
In March 1990, Senator Beaudoin, the chairman of the
Standing Senate Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs,
and an acknowledged constitutional scholar, said:
In our system of responsible government, the House of
Commons must have the final say. Within that house, the
govemment, when it has the confidence of the house, has
the final say.

Finally, Senator Duff Roblin, former premier of Manitoba.
former candidate for leadership of the Progressive Conservative
Party, former leader of the government in the Senate, said in
September. 1987:
How can a body which is not democratic in respect of
responsibility, or representative of the parliamentary system,
presume that it can have its way, no matter how misguided it
may think other people are?
Of course it is open to the Senate to deal with that message in
any way it deems fit, provided it does its work conscientiously
and expeditiously. but it does not lie in our mouths to say that the
government has not acted in cooperation and good faith with the
Senate in producing the proposed legislation as it promised and
as honourable senators expected.
However, when the amended bill came before the Senate for
action, the opposition raised the question of the continued
validity of Bill C-69. The message was referred to the Standing
Senate Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs. to resolve
the question of whether the expiry of the suspension date
mentioned in Bill C-18 had the effect of killing Bill C-69. The
committee had 12 days to study that question.
Finally, on the second last day available, the committee met,
heard clear evidence that the bill is still alive. and it heard no
evidence to the contrary. The purpose of the reference to the
committee had been fulfilled.

July 12, 1995

July 12, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

SENATE DEBATES

However, then some members of the committee managed to
find two or three other issues which gave them the excuse to
recommend that the matter remain in committee. Had the
committee met during the first 10 days available to it, it would
have heard the evidence that it heard on the last day and would
have had plenty of time to get additional advice, if it sincerely
required it.
However, the report of the committee clearly states that
Bill C-69 is still alive and on the Order Paper. The only issue
mentioned in the report that is based on the evidence heard is the
question of uncertainty caused if there is delay in the passage of
Bill C-69. If there is no delay, there is no issue.
If the committee had been interested in the constitutional or
other issues mentioned in the report, those could have been
tackled at any time during the substantial period the committee
had the bill. There is no valid legal issue contained in the request
of the committee for an undetermined and probably endless and this is confirmed now by what Senator Lynch-Staunton has
said - delay, supposedly to discuss legal issues.
In this case, foot dragging is the equivalent of attempting to
kill the bill without taking the responsibility for doing it openly.
We are not acting in good faith if we do not fairly and
expeditiously deal with the message from the House of
Commons. We must deal honestly with the legislative initiative
which was developed in accordance with the expectations of the
government, passed by the elected members of the House of
Commons, and anticipated by the Senate during the discussions
and negotiations which were carried out when we were
considering Bill C-18.
Honourable senators, I urge you to accept Senator Carstairs'
amendment.

2029
2029

and Senator Lynch-Staunton, the Leader of the Opposition, has
described, I think quite accurately, our situation.
If we insist on our amendments and send the motion forward
to the House of Commons, even if the House of Commons and
the government reconsider and accept our amendments, they
would not be able to do so, under the present schedule, until
September or October. The result would be that we would have a
vastly improved process over Bill C-69, but 23 months would
ensue before maps would be ready for a general election.
Clearly, because of what we have said about the bill, we do not
want to vote in favour of Senator Carstairs' motion and not insist
on our amendments. We do not want that bad law on the books,
and the public interest in that respect is not served by our
insisting on our amendments at this time.
I have no interest in defeating Bill C-69 and, as a matter of
fact, I should like to see an amended Bill C-69. I should like the
government to reconsider its position on some or al] of the
substantive amendments we proposed and to which the
government gave the back of its hand.
I agree with the Leader of the Opposition that we should allow
the present process to go forward. The committee should do its
work and, some time later in this calendar year, I for one would
be very happy to take up Bill C-69 again. I would want the
government to take another look at our amendments, and I would
want an improved Bill C-69 in place to take effect after the 1996
quinquennial census. That, I think, is the way in which we can
best assure that the next election will be fought on the basis of
the 1991 census. It is the way we can best ensure that a vastly
improved process will be in place for the future, and we will
thereby have served the cause of electoral democracy and of the
Canadian public interest.

Hon. Lowell Murray: Honourable senators, there is ample
precedent, as recently as the last Parliament, for the Senate to
amend bills two and three times and send those messages back to
the House of Commons. It is perhaps not surprising that Senator
Carstairs, as a new senator, might find this rather peculiar, even
scandalous, but I must say it is very surprising that Senator
Stanbury, who has a long memory for these matters, would have
expressed such shock and, indeed, that he would have the
temerity to invoke my name in taking his position this afternoon.
After all, we have been invited by Senator Carstairs, and
implicitly by Senator Stanbury, to defeat the bill.

Honourable senators, I intend to vote against the amendment
of Senator Carstairs and in favour of the motion of Senator
Beaudoin.

First, the question of defeating the bill is not before us. What is
before us in the amendment of the Honourable Senator Carstairs
is, essentially, Senator Graham's original motion: namely, that
we do not insist on our amendments. If we defeat that
amendment, what will be the effect? The effect will be that a
message to that effect will go forward to the House of Commons.
Under some circumstances, that would be not only a normal
thing to do but would be a welcome opportunity for us on this
side.

Second, I am not at all of the opinion expressed by the very
well-liked Senator Roblin or the very distinguished Senators
Beaudoin, Murray and others when they say that the Senate
should bow to the House of Commons. If you say that at all times
the Senate should bow to the wishes of the House of Commons,
there is no reason for the existence of the Senate. It makes no
sense to me. Why is there a Senate? All the members of the
House of Commons have to do, then, would be to say, "Let the
Senate have fun for a while because they are reluctant at the end
of the day to vote against us." I do not understand that thinking.
However, I was in the other House, and maybe that helps me to
better understand the process.

The problems we face now are indeed problems of timing.
Senator Carstairs has alluded to the testimony of Mr. Kingsley,

Hon. Marcel Prud'Homme: Honourable senators, from day
one, when I saw much hesitation on this side with regard to
tackling Bill C-69 because of the uncertainty of public opinion
and perhaps other reasons, I showed my total displeasure with
playing with the way we redistribute seats, which has worked so
wett in the past.
S(1640)

When I was in the House of Commons, it was a difficult time
for Mr. Mulroney beccause the exchange between the Liberals
and Conservatives was vigorous. I always said that as long as the
Senate exists, it has a constitutional duty to exercise. I was
always proud to defend the Senate, never believing that some day
I would end up in the Senate. My wish was to be Minister of
Foreign Affairs.
You may laugh. You can laugh loud and clear now, but I was
deprived of that great opportunity.
The Senate has a duty. Some people were very upset when the
Senate exercised its authority killing a bill concerning abortion.
Mr. Mulroney was full of displeasure. That is what I call the
Senate at its best. However, we must not ahead of time say that
we shall bow to whatever comes from the House of Commons. I
will not be part of that.
With respect to Bill C-69, I find some senators - I do not
want to say "flip-flopping." Some senators hesitated from day
one by making amendments to the bill. I am talking to Senator
Murray and others. When they made amendments to the bill,
they knew they would delay the maps. If the opposition
amendments had carried, the new process would have started and
new maps would have been drawn up. Now, nothing will be
ready before June 1997 and expenses will be doubled. The
$6 million will be thrown overboard, and another $6 million will
be found.
What would have happened had we kept the process that
worked so well in the past? I keep repeating that I believe in that
process. I went to the commissions. I lost. The best part of my
seat was taken over by the Honourable André Ouellet. I worked
hard. but I lost what I had worked for. Four times I changed. I did
not complain; I did not cry. I went to the commission.
I am arranging for people to go to the committee of the House
of Commons collectively to make one last presentation. I suggest
they do the same in Winnipeg. It makes no sense in Winnipeg to
split the seats on the Red River. What is happening in New
Brunswick makes no sense.

The Senate is our only recourse against MPs intent on
making life easier lor themselves at our expense.
If ever the Senate has a justification for its existence, this
is the time.
For 30 years, I kept saying to my colleagues, "Do not
gerrymander this issue." It was bad, but it was corrected over the
years by Mr. Pearson and Mr. Trudeau. The process worked. As a
Liberal, I was happy to follow the process. I do not mind the
process in which members will have the last say between
September 19 and October 19. That is the process; that is the law.
Of course, the government had to come up with a bill like
Bill C-69. It makes sense. They had to justify why they dropped
the other bill. They came up with three maps, and now the
Speaker will be involved officially in doing what he always did.
Believe me, the Speaker always consulted privately with political
parties. I was consulted. Is that clear enough? So were others. We
were consulted, and the system worked.
This country is full of exceptions. My esteemed colleague
Senator Beaudoin was absolutely astounded to hear about the
grandfather clause. People say 15 per cent should be the case, not
25 per cent, but it is impossible to apply the provision across
Canada simply because this country is full of exceptions.
Saskatchewan should have 10 seats, but it bas 14. Quebec should
have 71, and it has 75. That is the grandfather clause. Manitoba
should have 1l, but it has 14. Nova Scotia has two too many, but
one is protected hy the grandfather clause. What can I do if I do
not agree with the amendments? I cannot say to the House of
Commons that I will bow because if I bow to the House, that
means I accept their Bill C-69.
a

(1I65

I will not abstain. I will let the process continue in the hope
that if we continue our study, then the actual process will take its
natural course. We will have maps based on the 1991 census for
the next election. Come the next election, we could have another
bill like Bill C-69.

I share the opinion of the commissioner who is the only
minority commissioner in Canada in this report. I read them all.

The Hon. the Speaker: It was moved in amendment by the
Honourable Senator Carstairs, seconded by the Honourable
Senator Cools:

Tel] your members of Parliament that they have until July 22.
Any 10 members of the House of Commons can table a motion
with the clerk of Mr. Milliken's committee saying, "We, the
undersigned, wish to make the following presentation." There is
no reason why some of them could not win, because in the past
many of them have been successful. That is the process.

That the Fourteenth Report of the Standing Senate
Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs be not now
adopted, but that it be amended by striking out the sixth and
seventh paragraphs and replacing them with the following:

I find myself in very good company with the Gazette. I have
been spoiled by the Montreal Gazette. That may explain why I
was elected so many times.
Imagine William Johnson. Who does not know William
Johnson? He was a great speaker at a dinner for Cité libre. In a
July 7 article in the Montreal Gazette entitled "A bad bill: Senate
should stand up to Commons on redistribution," Mr. Johnson
wrote:

1Senaior

Prud'Hoinic

However, as the Honourable Herb Gray noted, any
potential difficulties would be rendered moot by the early
passage of Bill C-69.
Consequently. the Committee recommends that a message
be sent to the House of Commons to acquaint that House
that with respect to its message to the Senate dated
20th June. 1995. regarding Bill C-69. the Senate does not
insist upon its amendments to which the House of
Commons has disagreed.

July 12, 1995

995SENATE

July12,

DEBATES

Is it your pleasure, honourable senators, to adopt the motion?

NAYS
THE HONOURABLE SENATORS

Somne Hon. Senators: Yes.
Somne Hon. Senators: No.

The Hon. the Speaker: Will those honourabie senators in
favour of the motion please say "yea"'?
Some Hon. Senators: Yea.
The Hon. the Speaker: WiII those honourabie senators
opposed to the motion please say "nay"?
Somne Hon. Senators: Nay.
The Hon. the Speaker: In my opinion, the "nays" have it.
And two honourable senators having risen.

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, if there is no
agreement on time, we wiII follow the rules. The vote wiII be
held at seven minutes to six o'clock.

Andreychuk
Atkins
Balfour
Beaudoin
Berntson
Bolduc
Buchanan
Cochrane
Cohen
Comeau
DeWare
Di Nino
Doody
Doyle
Eyton
Forrestali
Grimard
Gustafson
Jessiman
Kelleher
Kelly

Keon
Kinsella
LeBreton
Lynch-Staunton
MacDonald (Halifax)

Meighen
Murray
Nolin
Oliver
Ottenheimer
Phillips
Prud'homme
Rivest
Roberge
Robertson
Rossiter
Simard
Stratton
Sylvain
Tkachuk-4 1.
ABSTENTIONS

Please cati in the senators.

THE HONOURABLE SENATORS

0 (1750i)
* (I81>0>

Motion in amendment of Senator Carstairs negatived on the
following division:

MOTION IN AMENOMENT

YEAS

Hon. P. Derek Lewis: Honourable senators, 1 should like to
move, seconded by Senator Stanbury:

THE HONOURABLE SENATORS
Adams
Bacon
Bonneli
Bosa
Bryden
Carstairs
Cools
Corbin
Davey
De Bané
Fairbairn
Gigantès
Grafstein
Graham
Haidasz
Hays
Hébert
Hervieux-Payette

Koîber
Lewis
Losier-Cool
MacEachen
Marchand
Neiman
Oison
Pearson
Perrault
Petten
Riel
Robichaud
Stanbury
Stewart
Stollery
Thériau It
Watt-35.

That the Fourteenth Report of the Standing Senate
Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs be flot now
adopted, but that it be amended by adding immediately after
the words "further hearings" the following:
And that it present its final report to the Senate on the
message from the House of Commons, dated June 20,
1995, and the motion of the Honourable Senator Graham
dated June 28, 1995, no later than August 8, 1995.
I make this motion because when you look at the fourteenth
report of the committee, the last part of it simply recommends
that the issues be examined in depth and that the committee hold
further hearings. In other words, it is completely open-ended and
the matter could go on indefinitely. The amendment is to make it
clear that the committee should report by a fixed date.
As Senator Carstairs has said. the Chief Electoral Officer,
Mr. Kingsley, is in a quandary because he does flot know under
which process he should proceed. 1 was hoping that the matter
would be cleared up one way or the other. that Bill C-69 would
be passed or rejected. 1 suggest that we should set this date to
clear the air and so that we know where we are going.

I would suggest that if the opposition is sincere in their
allegations and not delaying. they should agree to this motion.
Previously we have been told that the opposition is not in
opposition to the bill. As a matter of fact, this is shown by the
fact that they said they wanted to improve it, and they actually
caused amendments to be made to the bill which showed their
wish to see the legislation go through. It is not until today that we
hear from the Leader of the Opposition that, in fact, they now say
they are in opposition to the bill.

the Liberal opposition during the tenure of the former
Conservative govemment.

I feel that this motion should be passed in order to make it
certain as to when the committee will report, and then the bill can
be dealt with one way or the other with no further delay.

I know that some senators opposite, particularly Senators
Lynch-Staunton and Murray, become impatient when we remind
them of Senator Flynn's words. They say they do not apply
today. However, honourable senators, they do indeed apply with
great resonance to the situation in which we find ourselves this
afternoon. When Senator Flynn was urging this house to adopt
his government's bill as expeditiously as possible, he said, and
again I quote:

Hon. John Lynch-Staunton (Leader of the Opposition):

Honourable senators, I wish to make the opposition's position on
Bill C-69 quite clear. We think that the amendments we proposed
improve it considerably. Bill C-69 as it presently stands is
regressive compared to the process presently in place. We are not
prepared to accept Bill C-69 in its present form.
We will not accept this amendment because we do not feel that
the present process, which is coming to an end, should be
interrupted. We feel the government should accept that. There
is $6 million already invested in the current process, which is
working well. I will not repeat what I said earlier. That is the
main thrust of our argument. There is nothing wrong with the
current process. It should only be improved upon, and no one can
disagree with that.
Bill C-69 should be set aside until after the draft representation
order has been confirmed, and then the boundaries based on the
1991 census can be applicable to the election which will take
place anytime after November 1996. Bill C-69, after the draft
representation order is proclaimed in the fall, can then be brought
back, fine-tuned, and we will be happy to support the
government in seeing that an improvement over the present
process is put into place.

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):

Honourable senators, I have listened to the debate this afternoon
with some concern and some regret; concern because Bill C-69 is
a very important bill which ultimately bas fundamental
implications for those, unlike ourselves, who seek to be elected
to the House of Commons, and also implications for the people
of Canada; a sense of regret because something is happening
with this piece of legislation, and perhaps other bills, which has
troubling implications for the way we do business in the Senate.
I will not take up the time of the house again in outlining the
path which has led us here over the past year in terms of the
effort on the part of the government to legislate changes in
electoral boundaries redistribution laws. Senator Carstairs has
placed firmly on the record the merits of and the necessity for
this bill.
In the past. under a similar process, there has been debate and
critical appraisal in the Senate. and legislation has been adopted
without amendment, including when the majority was held by

[ Senaior Lew&is J

Once again, I wish to remind honourable colleagues of the
assessment of our role as senators on this kind of issue - not on
broad and general issues, but on this kind of issue - by a former
leader of the government and opposition in this place, a former
Minister of Justice, the Honourable Jacques Flynn, when he was
sponsoring a government redistribution bill back in 1985,
Bill C-74.

... I would say this is an area that almost exclusively
concems the House of Commons, and I think that we as a
non-elected chamber and as appointed legislators are hardly
in a position to tell the members of the House of Commons
how they should proceed to draw the boundaries of their
electoral districts.
011o)

That was fairly harsh stuff from Senator Flynn. I would say,
honourable senators, that this bouse, through its majority, bas in
fact been dealing very aggressively in the past year with the
redistribution process, and not just in terms of offering advice.
The Senate has sent back to the House two bills with
amendments: Bill C-18 last year and, most recently, Bill C-69.
The amendments have been substantive, not just technical. The
government has been both responsive and respectful of the
Senate's legislative role.
It would appear now, however, that instead of wishing to
engage with the House of Commons in a serious way in the
legislative process, opposition senators are creating a dialogue
between the two Houses with something completely different in
mind.
On June 20, we received from the House of Commons a
message on our amendments. On June 21, my colleague Senator
Graham moved that the Senate not insist on those amendments.
Rather than concur. as we all know, Senator Murray moved the
adjournment of the debate knowing full well that this would
mean that the provisions of Bill C-18, which had suspended the
current electoral commissions, would take effect at midnight that
day because the new legislation, namely Bill C-69, would not be
in place. We all knew that.
To ensure, however, that such passage of Bill C-69 would be
impossible, Senator Kinsella, the opposition whip, deferred the
vote on Senator Murray's motion until the next day, June 22. On
that day, the current redistribution commissions were reactivated
as provided by law.

July 12, 1995

JuIy12,

SENATE DEBATES
995 ENAT DEBTES2033

Opposition senators maintained the bill and continued to
maintain, I suppose, that Bill C-69 was a dead letter, to use the
words of colleagues opposite. We on this side have strongly
maintained its legality. The Standing Senate Committee on Legal
and Constitutional Affairs took up the issue at the insistence of
the opposition and this week heard a series of expert witnesses,
as urged by Senator Lynch-Staunton.
It bas been noted, and I will not make too big a point of it, that
the committee did not meet at all last week, although that would
have provided more time to ask the questions it was developing.
However, on Monday of this week, the committee heard from
the Honourable Herb Gray, Solicitor General of Canada,
Government Leader in the House of Commons. and his
parliamentary secretary, Peter Milliken, who is the chair of the
House of Commons Standing Committee on Procedure and
House Affairs which committee produced Bill C-69. Mary
Dawson was here, the Assistant Deputy Minister in the
Department of Justice, as was Professor Beverley Baines from
the Faculty of Law at Queen's University.

2033

a sense, they are trying to achieve the same end by different
means.
The Standing Senate Committee on Legal and Constitutional
Affairs received Bill C-69 on May 2, 1995. This was 50 days,
honourable senators, from the June 22 deadline, a date that was
well known to everyone in this house.
The committee held five meetings and heard from five
different witnesses before releasing the bill back to the Senate
with amendments 37 days later which, I would suggest, is quite a
leisurely pace. That did not give the House of Commons a great
deal of time to deal with the amendments, but it managed to do
so, sending back a message to us just prior to the June 22
deadline. I admit that is about as tight as you can get.
The opposition sent that bill to committee to examine whether
it was a dead letter. When that line of concern failed to produce
any fruit, the opposition suggested that it be returned to
committee to examine what might happen if it is held up for
another five months in the Senate.

All of those witnesses testified that Bill C-69 was legally and
properly before us and the only significance of the passage of the
June 22 deadline was the lifting of the suspension on the current
electoral boundaries commission process, which has occurred.
That. honourable senators, was the critical question. It was dealt
with in committee.

Honourable senators, through our Deputy Leader, Senator
Graham, we offered to have witnesses testify on this issue
immediately, yesterday or today. They were ready to come, but
we did not receive a favourable response. Having listened today
very carefully to Senator Murray and Senator Lynch-Staunton,
we now know why. They really have no intention of proceeding
with Bill C-69 in its present form.

Honourable senators opposite then began to delve into other
questions, hypothetical questions, as to what might be the legal
and constitutional situation if Bill C-69 were not passed before
November when the representation order would be issued under
the current process.

Senator Murray wants to give the government another
opportunity to consider his amendments. However, honourable
senators, as my colleague Senator Stanbury said this afternoon,
that time, in our view, has passed.

The witnesses were prepared to deal with the validity of the
bill now, and they were thrown a curve. Opposition senators
raced right past the testimony and asked about five months from
now - not today, not next week not three weeks from now, but
what about five months from now?

We have tried today, through Senator Carstairs' motion, to
achieve a definitive result on Bill C-69. All of us can count. The
opposition majority has defeated that proposal. We are now faced
with the prospect of further committee study.

Mr. Gray made the obvious point that, if the Senate passes the
bill now in order to respond to the urgency of having a new
process, which would ensure an election could take place under
new boundaries in June of 1997, then what might happen next
November is moot. It is not relevant.

We on this side strongly believe that this is not necessary but,
should it go forward, it should not go on indefinitely. Therefore,
through Senator Lewis, we are proposing a timetable for the
committee which will allow it ample opportunity to conduct and
complete its work.

To wait five months, honourable senators, to see what might
happen is a very novel way for the Senate to deal with legislation
of this nature. It is at this point that one reaches again for the
wisdom of Senator Flynn. What exactly is the Senate doing with
this bill? Are those who obviously want it to be a dead letter
prepared at any point to permit a final vote in this house? Yes or
no? Or are we seeing a new process developing, whereby
prolonged delay in itself, in the confines of a committee of the
Senate, governed obviously by a majority, prevents the rest of the
senators in this house from making their own choice and
registering it with a vote?

We are confident that the evidence that committee will hear on
the subjects that have been raised will support our view that this
bill should be passed as quickly as possible, without any further
amendments. Under our proposal, this bill could be given Royal
Assent by early August.

A committee is being used to effectively sidetrack bills that the
opposition does not wish to see proceed. but also that they
apparently do not wish to openly defeat in a recorded vote. So. in

0 (1820)

Contrary to some views of members of the opposition, we
firmly believe that the improvements contained in this bill more
than justify its quick passage to pave the way for a new
redistribution.
Honourable senators, having said that, I have no hesitation in
suggesting to colleagues on both sides of the house that Senator
Lewis's amendment is reasonable and I would hope it will
receive support in this chamber.

Some Hon. Senators: Hear, hcar!
Hon. Marcel Prud'homme: Honourable senators, 1 do not
understand this yelling. We are paid to do a job and I intend to do
mine. Frankly. I resenit people who complain because some
participate in debate more than others. 1 do not decide how
people will work. I enjoy my daily work.
There are a few matters that cause me sorne concern in
connection with this bill.
I would politely point out to the Leader of the Govemment in
the Senate that I do flot consider rnyself' to be an opposition
member. 1 arn a rnerber of the Senate. Someday 1 wiIl vote - if
I feel as strongly as I do on this bill - with the goverfiment. if it
is called for. However, I totally agree with Senator Carstairs that
we should have voted this bill down.
Any proposaI to tamper with the usual process should have
been stopped irnmediately. It was not; and I regret it. Only now
does public opinion seerns to be having an impact. 1 regret that
this side does not seem to bc willing to, defeat the bill. That is
their choice, but do flot put me in any one group of people. I have
opinions that may differ from theirs.
It is unfortunate that we did flot stop it right away. The right of
the House of Commons should be primordial, but they should
have amended the process prior to the publication of the
legislation. It is their righ t to prescrit proposed legislation. There
would have been nothing wrong in having produced a bill which
stated that a new map should be issued every f'ive years. and that
the Speaker of' the House of Commons would play a role in the
whole process. However. those provisions were only put forward
aller dispîcasure was expressed upon seeing the first rnap. That is
the message 1 have been trying to convey.
I disagree with an esteemed old friend of' mine whom I met
when he was the Speaker of' the Student Parliament at Lavai
University. That is where I met Senator Meighen. They were aIl
Tories, but I was defending the pillar of the Liberal Party. I met
Brian Mulroney, Senator Meighen, Mr. White, and two others in
the late 1950s. That is a long tirne ago. We dcbated against each
other. I have flot changed my opinion. I arn independent. and 1
believe that I have the right to say that I do flot agree with these
senators who say that senators should bow to the House of
Commons and should always announce their compliance with the
House. There is no justification in that.
I arn defending you. honourable senators. There is no
justification for you and me to sit if at the end of the day we say,
"Members of the House of Commons. do flot worry. We will bow
down to you and do whatever you say."
If Canadians decide to have a new kind of institution. that will
be their decision. In the meantime. there are two Houses: one
called the House of Commons: one called the Senate. We have a
constitutional duty to perforrn. but we have to exercise
discretion. However. I agree that we should flot abuse our right
just to be unpîeasant.
On this issue. the leader quoted - and she is pertectîy able to
do so. but 1 hav e another cluote -that nierbers ol the House of'

Commons are the ones who have inflicted this upon themselves.
1 say that one of the issues where members of the House of
Commons should flot be involved is in the question of
redistribution. 1 say that particularly after having seen the first
map.
1 say to the Honourable Senator Beaudoin. who is a great
constitutionalist; to Senator Roblin, a great, fine gentlemen; to
Senator Flynn, and to others who helieve what they believe. that
they should - and 1 say this politely and with great humility
because they are great authorities - reassess their thinking of
what the Senate is aIl about. There may be tirnes in the future
when the Senate will have to oppose the frivolity of some of the
measures proposed by the House of Commons.
1 would quote William Johnson, National Affairs, again. in an
article in the Montreal Gazette on July 7, 1995. He stated:
A bad bill. Senate should stand up to Commons on
redistribution.
It's true that senators are non-elected, wliich detracts
frorn their democratie legitirnacy.
That is up to Canadians to decide.
Mr. Johnson goes on to state:
But the elected MPs...
There again. a great joumnalist like hirn should say "the elected
Members of the House of' Commons." so as not to confuse the
readers hecause 1 arn a member of Parliarnent. too. He meant to
say "Members of the House of Commons have served their own
convenience by this bill in which they have a blatant
self -interest."ý He went on to state:
The senators, with no personal interest at stake. can stand up
and defend the public interest. the interest of ail citizens.
against the narrow self interest of' the MPs.
Again. that should have stated "Members of the House of
Commons." He goes on to further state:
The Senate is our only recourse against MPs intent on
rnaking life easier for themselves at our expense.
If ever the Senate has a justification for its existence, this
is the tirne.
Once again, the first paragraph should have read "Members of
the House of Cornrons," not "MPs."
1 will carry that precious article in rny pocket for many years.
I will keep that article next to me so that when the press start
talking about the nuisance of the Senate - how we should
abolish the Senate: how it should be elected; and how it should
disappear - I will be able to reply that this is very strange.
When we make you unhappy. you want us to disappear. but when
you think we rnay he able to defend the public interest, then vou
corne Io us and say. -Please do sornething.-

July 12, 1995

July 12, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

2035
2035

SENATE DEBATES

This article should be kept by al] of you. I will send you a
copy of it, even though I have no staff at the moment because we
are reducing our expenses. Why do not we say that publicly? We
do not have money to replace staff who are on vacation. Yet we
are ready to spend $6 million on this proposed legislation. We do
not have money to change the carpet now. I opposed changing
the carpet. Look at it. It is a shame for visitors to see. But I am
glad that I said, "Do not change it. Show them that we are
screwed around here." Nevertheless, we are prepared to spend
$6 million.
What I am saying seems to be entertaining to some of you.
That is my way of trying to convince people, but I know that you
cannot be convinced.
An Hon. Senator: Button him up!
Senator Prud'homme: You are not having fun at my expense.
I know that the way I express myself entertains you. I have
always spoken in this fashion, and for 30 years I was popular in
the national Liberal caucus. Every time I ran for office in an open
battle, I was defeated; in a secret ballot, I won every election in
the caucuses of Quebec and the national caucus. That says a lot.
I was speaking up for those who did not want to speak up.
Honourable senators, you have a golden opportunity before
you today. I am not trying to sit on both sides of the fence.
People seem to say, "It seems we have more support now, so we
will delay the process."

1995, and the motion of the Honourable Senator Graham,
dated June 28, 1995, no later than August 8, 1995.
Is there any other senator who wishes to speak?
Is it your pleasure, honourable senators, to adopt the motion?
Some Hon. Senators: Yes.
Some Hon. Senators: No.
The Hon. the Speaker: Will those honourable senators in
favour of the motion please say "yea"?
Some Hon. Senators: Yea.
The Hon. the Speaker: Will those honourable senators
opposed to the motion please say "nay"?
Some Hon. Senators: Nay.
The Hon. the Speaker: In my opinion, the "nays" have it.
And two honourable senators having risen.

The Hon. the Speaker: Is there an agreement on time?
Senator Kinsella: We have agreed on a five-minute bell.
The Hon. the Speaker: The vote will then be held at
21 minutes to seven o'clock.
Please call in the senators.

I have not liked the process from day one, and I said so in
committee. I am proud to be a senator and I do not care about the
biggest authority in this country telling us that we should bow to
the House of Commons. Canadians wili decide when it is time to
bow to the House of Commons or to the wishes of members of
the House of Commons, but in the meantime Canadians accept
that there is a Senate in this country. They accept that Senator
Thériault can stand up in the Senate, as he courageously did two
years ago when public opinion was in favour of him voting
against the $6,000 raise, and vote as he sees fit. He made a
remarkable speech at that time. That is what people expect from
senators and that is what I am trying to give to them.
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, I do not want to
interfere in the debate, but I assume it is the wish of the Senate
that I not see the clock.
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
The Hon. the Speaker: The motion before us is that of
Senator Lewis, seconded by Senator Stanbury:
That the Fourteenth Report of the Standing Senate
Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs be not now
adopted, but that it be amended by adding immediately after
the words "further hearings" the following:
And that it present its final report to the Senate on the
message from the House of Commons, dated June 20,

0 (18440)

Motion in amendment of Senator Lewis negatived on the
following division:
YEAS
THE HONOURABLE SENATORS
Adams
Bacon
Bonnell
Bosa
Bryden
Carstairs
Cools
Corbin
Davey

De Bané
Fairbairn
Gigantès
Grafstein
Graham
Haidasz
Hays
Hébert

Hervieux-Payette
Lewis

Losier-Cool
MacEachen
Marchand
Neiman
Oison
Pearson
Perrault
Petten
Riel
Robichaud
Stanbury
Stewart
Stollery
Thériault
Watt-34

The Hon. the Speaker: Is leave granted. honourable senators?!

NAYS
THE HONOURABLE SENATORS

Hon. Senators: Agreed.
The Hon. the Speaker: Is it your pleasure. honourable

Keon
Kinsella
LeBreton
Lynch-Staunton
MacDonald (Halifax~)
Meighen
Murray
Nolin
Oliver
Ottenheimer
Phillips
Prud'homme
Rivest
Roberge
Robertson
Rossiter
Simard
Stratton
Sylvain
Tkachuk--4(

Andreychuk
Atkins
Balfour
Beaudoin
Ber-ntson
Bolduc
Buchanan
Cochrane
Cohen
Comeau
DeWare
Di Nino
Doody
Doyle
Forrestaîl
Cri mard
Gustafson
Jessiman
Kelleher
Kelly

ABSTENTIONS
THE HONOURABLE SENATORS

Nil

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators. we are now
back to the main motion.
It was moved by the Honourable Senator Beaudoin, seconded
by the Honourable Senator Di Nino, that the report of the
Standing Senate Commîttee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs
on Bill C-69 be now adopted.
Does any honourable senator wish to speak?

Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourable senators. if no other senator wishes
to speak. with leave. 1 move that the result of the vote on Senator
Lewis' motion be applied in reverse to the vote on the main
motion.

senators, to adopt the motion'?

Some Hon. Senators: Yes.
Some Hon. Senators: No.
The Hon. the Speaker: Will those honourable senators in
favour of the motion please say -yea"?
Sonne Hon. Senators: Yea.
The Hon. the Speaker: Will those honourable senators
opposed to the motion please say "nay"'?
Some Hon. Senators: Nay.
The Hon. the Speaker: In my opinion, the -yeas" have it.
Motion agreed to and report adopted on the following division:
YEAS
THE HONOURABLE SENATORS

Andreychuk
Atkins
Bal four
Beaudoin
Berntson
Bolduc
Buchanan
Cochrane
Cohen
Comeau
DeWare
Di Nino
Doody
Doyle
Forrestaîl
Grimard
Gustaf son
Jessiman
Kelleher
Kelly

Keon
Kinsella
LeBreton
Lynch-Staunton
MacDonald (Haliffax>
Meighen
Murray
Nolin
Oliver
Ottenheimer
Phillips
Prud'homme
Rivest
Roberge
Robertson
Rossi ter
Simard
Stratton
Sylvain
Tkachuk-40

July 12, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

2037
2037

SENATE DEBATES

Juiy 12, 1995
NAYS
THE HONOURABLE SENATORS

tomorrow at 12:30. With leave, therefore. 1 move that ail
motions, reports of committees and inquiries stand.
The Hon. the Speaker: Is leave granted, honourable senators?

Adams
Bacon
Bonneli
Bosa
Bryden
Carstai rs
Cools
Corbin
Davey
De Bané
Fairbaim
Gigantès
Grafstein
Graham
Haidasz
Hays
Hébert

Hervieux-Payette
Lewis
Losier-Cool
MacEachen
Marchand
Neiman
Oison
Pearson
Perrault
Petten
Riel
Robichaud
Stanbury
Stewart
Stoiiery
Thériault
Watt-34
ABSTENTIONS
THE HONOURABLE SENATORS

Hon. Senators: Agreed.
The Hon. the Speaker: Is it your pleasure. honourabie
senators, to adopt the motion?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Motion agreed to.
ADJOURNMENT
Leave having been given to reveil to Govemnment Notices of
Motions:
Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourable senators, with leave of the Senate,
and notwithstanding rule 58(I)(h), 1 move:
That when the Senate adjourns today, it do stand
adjourned until Thursday, Juiy 13, 1995, at ten thirty
o'clock in the morning.
The Hon. the Speaker: Is leave granted. honourabie senators?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.

Nil
BUSINESS 0F THE SENATE
Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Goverument): Honourable senators, we anticipate Royal Assent

The Hon. the Speaker: Is it your pleasure. honourable
senators, to adopt the motion?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
The Senate adjourned until tomorrow at 10:30 ar.

THE SENATE
Thursday, JuIy 13, 1995
The Senate met at 10:30 a.m.. the Speaker in the Chair.
Prayers.

VISITORS IN GALLERY
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators. before 1 cati for

statements. 1 sbould like to draw your attention to some
distinguisbed visiiors in the gallery.
[Translation]

Honourable senators. it is our privilege to welcome to the
Senate gallery Senator Maganga. the First Secretary of' tbe
Senate of Congo, and Mr. Sziengue, the Executive Secretary of
the Speaker. We are happy t0 greet them.
[En glish]

THE HONOURABLE JOAN NEIMAN
TRII3UTES ON RETIREMENT

Hon. .Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):

Honourable senators. I take this opportunity today to say
goodbye to our dear friend and colleague Senator Neiman. 1 do
s0 witb great reluctance and sadness. Tbougb it is dilficult to
imagine. Senator Neiman retires from this place on September 9,
and 1 bid ber larewell today in case we are flot assembled
together before that lime.
I do this obviously witb mixed feelings. White 1 welcome an
occasion to bonour Joan, 1 also know tbat ber presence in tbe
Senate will be greatly missed by botb sides. and particularly by
myscif.
Hard working. dedicated. sensitive. tougb, witb a great sense
of humour. Senator Neiman bas been a truc credit to this
institution. She bas been a champion of the Senate and the
importance of its place in our democratie system. She bas led
always by example within and outside this institution in the work
she bas donc tbrougbout ibis country and internationally,
parîicularly in ber leadersbip role over the years in tbe
Inter-Parliamcentary Union.
It is quite fitîing. and in no small measure indicative of
Senator Nciman's character, that ber service in this chamber
sbould culminate in the tabling of a tborougb. rcasoned. and
well-received report on the daunting question of cuthanasia.
literally life and death. Senator Neiman bas neyer sbicd away
trom tackling some of tbe more difficult issues wbicb we as
Parliamentarians are required to debate and legislate. Indced. tbe
very firsi speecb sbe made iii ibis chamber was on the subleci of
capital punishmnin. In rising. she said.

1 listened to the many eloquent and informed speeches
whicb have been made on a wide range of topics and
became convinced tbat 1 should not speak until I had
something worthwhile to say. That criterion might have
sentenced me to a fle of' silence.
Might 1 say. honourable senators. that we are glad she tossed
aside such inhibitions and forged her own directions in this place.
Senator Neiman's energy and determination were clearly
evident throughout her life. Early on. after finishing high sehool
in Winnipeg and studying English ai Mount Allison University in
Sackville. New Brunswick, she joined the Women's Royal
Canadian Reserves. She served with themi for four years, retiring
at the rank of Lieutenant Commander. She then attended law
scbool at Osgoode Hall in Toronto, married Clem, and had three
children: Dallis, Patricia, and David.
Before her appointment to the Senate. Senator Neiman
practised law and kept involved politically. including running in
the Ontario general legislations of 1963 and 1967. She has served
the Liberal Party and the values and traditions it represents with
vigour and commitmeni.
When Senator Neiman was appointed to the Senate in 1972, 1
believe there was a total. including berself. of eight women in
ibis chamber. Now there are 20. That is a long road to have
blazed a trait on, Senator Neiman. Since those days in 1972. this
womnan has been a fuli-time senator in ibis chamber and its
committees. Her assignments bave included the Senate
committees on National Finance. Aboriginal Peoples. Foreign
Affairs. Social Atiairs. Science and Tecbnology. and a Special
Joint Committee on the Constitution of Canada.
9 004l)

However. ber participation in the Legal and Constitutional
Affairs Committee bas been ber central commitment for many
years as a member from 1972 to 1995. as chair trom 1980 to
1986 and 1986 to 1988. It was there that 1. as a new senator.
came to know ber best and to record ber exhaustive commitment
to very ditfficult issues with admiration and tremendous respect.
Honourable senators. ibis committee bas embraced flot only
tecbnical. legal and constitutional legislation. il bas been at the
beart of sensitive social issues trom child abuse to the rights of
Indian women, aboriginal women. divorce laws, correctional
justice and immigration. It led Senator Neiman to wbai bas been
a truly passionate concerfl as co-chair of the Special Senate
Committee on Eutbanasia and Assisted Suicide.
This week. bonourable senators, sbe spoke wiib wisdom.
candour and emotion in moving adoption of that report. It is a
landimark document l'or this Parliament and for the country in
providing a solid loundation l'or the furtber exploration and
decisions ibat ibis subJcct wilI demand.

July 13, 1995
July 13, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

SENATE DEBATES

The name of Joan Neiman and ail the colleagues in this
chamber who served on that committee will be synonymous with
an outstanding report.
In her maiden speech in November 1973, Senator Neiman said
that she hoped she would be able to make some effective
contribution to her province and to her country through this
chamber, in which she was proud to serve. Honourable senators,
in response, 22 years later, I would simply say: Joan, you have
done much more than that for your province and for your
country. The Senate is proud to have had you as a member. All of
us offer our thanks and best wishes to you and your family for a
happy, healthy and, we know, very active future.
Hon. Senators: Hear, hear!
Hon. John Lynch-Staunton (Leader of the Opposition):
Honourable senators, the Leader of the Government has so ably
given us the outstanding background and experience of Senator
Neiman and her many contributions both in Parliament and
outside that there is nothing left for me to do - and I do it with
great pleasure - but to join with her to express to Senator
Neiman our great appreciation for having given so much of her
life to the service of her country.
Much is made about a parliamentarian's maiden speech.
Senator Fairbaim correctly focused on the speech made in 1973
by Senator Neiman because it was on the always delicate and
controversial topic of capital punishment. She spoke eloquently
and convincingly as an abolitionist. However, much must be
made of her last speech made here on Tuesday last when she
moved the adoption of the report of the Special Senate
Committee on Euthanasia and Assisted Suicide. It confirms that
we have had in our midst over the last many years - but not
enough years - a person whose concerns and sensitivities have
always remained unchanged and which have earned her much
deserved admiration.
Her retirement again proves that those who imposed a
mandatory retirement age on this place did not think it through
thoroughly.
While we will miss her when she leaves us in September, I
know that the best wishes of my colleagues are with her in the
many active years which are ahead.
Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourable senators, someone once said that you
do not learn seamanship in calm weather. I do not have to tell
honourable senators that Joan Neiman has steered the course
through many rough waters in her time in this place, never
hesitating to explore new channels with her well-known sense of
adventure and her equally well-known courage and personal
integrity.
It has been mentioned by our leader that Senator Neiman
leamed all about seamanship when she served with the Canadian
navy. Equipped with a gifted legal mind, she has charted new
courses in the Standing Senate Committee on Legal and
Constitutional Affairs by conducting widely applauded hearings
into the controversial areas of euthanasia and assisted suicide.

2039
2039

Whenever Senator Neiman speaks, whether in this chamber, in
caucus or elsewhere, she is listened to very carefully and
attentively, because when she speaks she has something
important and worthwhile to say. Those are lessons and examples
we can al] take to heart in this chamber.
Most importantly, I want to thank Senator Neiman, my seat
mate in the early years here, for her friendship. in good times and
in bad. Of all her qualities, it has been her good cheer, her
warmth and unfailing loyalty that I will always remember and
cherish.
[Translation]

Hon. Gérald-A. Beaudoin: Honourable senators, I would like
to say a few words about the remarkable contribution made by
Senator Joan Neiman to the Senate. I have been in the Senate for
seven years, and I have seen Senator Neiman at work in this
house, on the Legal and Constitutional Affairs Committee and,
for 16 months, on the Special Senate Committee on Euthanasia
and Assisted Suicide.
A lawyer by profession, she has always had a keen interest in
legal issues, criminal law, the Canadian Charter of Rights and
Freedoms, federal law generally and, of course, the Canadian
Constitution.
Personally, I have always set great store by Senator Joan
Neiman's opinion when dealing with bills to amend the Criminal
Code of Canada, and heaven knows, we have quite a few of these
bills before the Legal and Constitutional Affairs Committee,
where the senator's experience and expertise have always been
more than welcome.
For 16 months - as the chair of the Special Senate Committee
on Euthanasia and Assisted Suicide - she dedicated her time,
energy and capabilities to solving problems and making
recommendations. I have seldom been involved in such an
interesting and indeed important committee.
[English]

Senator Neiman and I usually agree on many things - in fact,
nearly all things. On the two points where we disagree - that is,
on euthanasia and assisted suicide - I must say that her
reasoning has always been very strong, respectful and
impressive.
Honourable senators, in the field of law, it is impossible to
agree all the time. I have always enjoyed a good exchange of
views in the field of law. Law is social engineering. It is the
civilized way to solve problems in a democracy.
Senator Neiman has proved beyond any reasonable doubt how
useful the Senate is in our political and constitutional system. I
hope that, on very important subjects, other special senatorial
committees will continue to be regularly established. They may
follow. and derive many advantages from, the example set by
Senator Joan Neiman.

[Translation]
Honourable senators. 1 wisb Senator Neiman a long and happy
lite. Her contribution to the Senate bas been oiitstanding. and 1
amn sorry Io sec ber leave the Senate. She is truly the best.
[En glisli]
0

(I1o5)5

Hon. Sharon Carstairs: Honourable senators. as was pointed
out by our leader. when Senator Neiman came to tbis place, she
was only one of eigbt women senators. Those of us women wbo
have chosen political careers bave had few role models to follow.
No matter what our sphere of political activity was. Joan Neiman
bas been such a role mode].
1 also have a Manitoba connection and an Alberta connection
with Joan Neiman. She lived in Manitoba as a child. where her
father practised medicine and where sbe is still wcll known for
some of ber activities in Lac du Bonnet in ber early childhood
ventures.
Wben 1 first moved to Alberta and became active in the
Alberta Liberal Party, Io and bcbold. one of' ber close personal
fricnds. Hope Pickard. became a close fricnd of mine. 1 learncd
of their service in the armed forces together. 1 lcamned of Joan's
political activity. and 1 began to watch witb intercst ber activities
as she campaigned and later became a member of this chamber.
Then 1 found myscîf' sitting in this chamber witb ber on the
Special Senate Commitice on Euthanasia and Assisted Suicide.
which she chaired. There 1 lcarned lirsthand of' the capacity of
ber intellect. of the warmtb of ber bumanity and of' ber
understanding of' the human condition.
Honourable senators. by a strange quirk. if the fates allow, 1.
too. will have 23 years in this chamber. as Joan bas bad. If in that
time I can contribute a very small portion of' what Joan Neiman
bas contributed. then my service will be of value. How proud she
must be of the magnificent contributions that she bas made to
this chamber and to this country.

Hon. Senators:- Hear. bear!
Hon. Richard J. Doyle: Honourable senators. the tributes to
Joan Nciman's contributions to the recent study on euthanasia
and assistcd suicide should neyer be allowed to obscure the great
body of work that passed througb this chamber wbile she was at
the belm of the Standing Senate Committee on Legal and
Constitutional Affairs.
It was my good fortune to be sent to that committec by Senator
Roblin 10 years ago. I very quickly was seized witb the tbought
that no iust God would saddle one committee witb hoards of
immigrants. droves of' juvenile delinquents and assorted
constitutional crises at precisely the same moment in a country's
bistory. Judge Nathan Nurgitz and our colleague Senator
Beaudoin will understand wbat 1 miean. She was. as we are ail
aware. equal to those challenges. Tbe preerninence of the Legal

1Senaloi

Beaudoi n 1

and Constitutional Affairs Comrnittee owes mucb to her
stewardsbip. 1 arn one of ber fans and 1 wiIl rernain so as she
takes up her next career.

Hon. Raymond J. Perrault: Honourable senators, it is often
said on the occasion of a senator's retirement from this chamber
that he or she was an "adomment" to the place. Joan Neiman has
been something more than an adornment in the Senate. She has
been an active. working. inspirational force in this chamher and
she will be very badly missed.
Senator Neiman has made an enormous contribution to Canada
through her activities in the Senate. Her work bas given the lie to
those mindless critics out there who say that senators simply sit
around and collect their per diems and other indemnifications for
serving in this place. She has been active and dedicated. She has
made friends in aIl parts of the country. In my own area of British
Columbia. Joan Neiman is respected and well known. The
quality of ber work is recognized.
Honourable senators, as 1 have stated on such occasions
hefore. 1 wish we had the position of' senator emeritus so that
individuals such as Senator Neiman could continue to contribute
despite this ridiculous formaI departure date at age 75.
On behaîf of the people of my province, 1 wish ber well. and
every happiness in the future. Joan, please keep in toucb with the
Senate.

Hon. Lowell Murray: Honourable senators. in listening to the
well-deserved tributes being paid to Senator Neiman this
morning. my thoughts go back to another former colleague
wbose name was mentioned a tew moments ago by Senator
Doyle, namely. former Senator Nathan Nurgitz.
During much of the time that the Conservative government
was in office. Senator Nurgitz. as the senior Conservative on the
Legal and Constitutional Affairs Committee. and Senator
Neiman. as its chair. enjoyed an excellent working relationship to
whicb 1 can personally testify. Divided as tbey were by party
loyalties. tbey were nevertheless united as one in their devotion
to the law and in their concemn that legal principles and the best
legal and constitutional traditions be upheld in ail our legislation.
During most of tbat time, the Conservative government was in
a minority position in this chamber and in its committees. 1 do
want, however. to record the fact that while Senator Neiman
always did defend. as the Leader of tbe Government bas said. the
values and the traditions of the Liberal Party, ber approach as
chairman of that standing committec throughout was. without
exception, thoroughly professional and eminently fair.
1 want. therefore, in prcsuming to speak l'or former Senator
Nurgitz. as 1 tbink 1 can. to express bis appreciation and to add
my own and that of' tbe former governmcnt. even at tbis late
stage. to my bonourable friend for ber excellent contribution to
the legislative process during those years.
In a personal way. 1 wisb ber continued good bealtb and good
fortune iii ber retirement froni this place.

July 13, 1995

JuIy 13, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

SENATE DEBATES

[Translation]

Hon. Eymard G. Corbin: Honourable senators, I would also
like to take this opportunity, as a parliamentarian, to extend my
best wishes to Senator Neiman. I had the privilege of working
with her on the Special Senate Committee on Euthanasia and
Assisted Suicide, and I was impressed by the determination and
zeal with which she approached these issues and led the
committee's proceedings.
Whenever problems arose in committee, and they did, Senator
Neiman always managed to keep calm, no matter how stressful
the situation. I think one of her outstanding traits is her ability to
relax in moments of stress and take the time to clarify both sides
of the issue.
Our experience as members of the Special Senate Committee
on Euthanasia and Assisted Suicide has been unforgettable, and I
think most of the credit for this should go to Senator Neiman.
She always stayed calm. Setting aside whatever had happened
during the day, she would sit down with us and talk about our
personal concerns and other matters. She was able to maintain a
businesslike atmosphere and, despite the seriousness of the topic,
to do so with the occasional burst of humour.
I agree it is too bad that a person with her intellect should have
to leave us at this time of her life. As I happen to sit right behind
the senator, I have daily witnessed her interest in parliamentary
issues and the dedication with which she reads ail the documents
she receives. She never skips a line, and I have been watching the
senator for ail these months and years.
I hope that if circumstances permit, she will feel free to share
her opinions with us, even if she must leave us today.
[English]
•

Ioo)

Senator Neiman, you must go, however you will remain in our
hearts.
Hon. H.A. Oison: Honourable senators, I want to associate
myself with aIl of the comments made about Senator Neiman's
career over the last 23 years here in the Senate. Whatever has
been said has been well said but, perhaps, understated, even in
regard to the contribution that she has made to this chamber. This
is why I want to associate myself with ail those kind words.
Perhaps on a somewhat more personal basis I may be
pernitted to say that both Senator Murray and I owe her even
more than he indicated. I have had the good fortune of having
Senator Neiman sit behind me, both on this side of the house and
on the other side of the house when we were in opposition. There
were some days during Question Period when Senator Murray,
who was then Leader of the Government, was particularly
annoying, should I say, or something to that effect. Senator
Neiman agreed a long while ago, mostly while we were on the
other side of the bouse, that she would be my guardian, and cool
me down when we had those Question Periods to which I just

2041
2041

referred. I think you should know, Joan, that both Senator Murray
and I are grateful for your contribution in this respect.
We will miss you for the reasons that have already been
adequately described. I join with ail of those who wish you well
in whatever you intend to do with what I am sure will be many
more productive years. We hope you will be involved in
interesting matters, and that you will also remember that there
comes a time when you should rest a littie bit from ail of your
hard work and take advantage of a very well-deserved, quieter
time, if I may cal] it that.
[Translation]

Hon. Philippe Deane Gigantès: Honourable senators, let us
not forget that Senator Neiman has never denied anyone in this
house her friendship, a friendship that is very much appreciated.
When people ask what the Senate is and why should we have a
Senate, al we have to do is describe the senator, and the answer
is obvious. People are convinced and they love you.
Hon. Rose-Marie Losier-Cool: Honourable senators, as the
most junior senator appointed to this house, I also wish to take
this opportunity to pay tribute to Senator Neiman.
At my first committee meetings, I was struck by the integrity
and intellect of Senator Neiman and especially by her desire to
share a friendship. Now, I should like to wish her a happy
retirement.
I was flattered when someone in this house told me that we
shared a physical likeness. After the words of praise I heard
today, I am doubly flattered. Senator Neiman, I hope that some
day my contribution to this house will resemble yours.
[English]

Hon. Richard J. Stanbury: Honourable senators, because my
leader and others dealt comprehensively with the life and times
of Senator Joan Neiman. I wish to restrict my remarks to fond
memories of over 35 years of friendship and working together in
politics and in the Senate.
Joan's involvement in community service led her into active
politics. Her interest in the social policy of the Liberal Party, both
provincially and federally, naturally culminated in her candidacy
for election to the provincial legislature, and an important
contribution to the effectiveness of the federal party.
She and her husband Clem have had a comprehensive
partnership in marriage and in the raising of a wonderful family,
in law as the law firm of Neiman and Bissett - which is Joan's
maiden name - and in a deep commitment to community
service, as well as in their pursuit of politics.
Through the sixties and seventies, a group of us worked to
revitalize the Liberal Party in Toronto and Ontario. We were not
always successful. but I doubt if anyone ever enjoyed politics
more than we did.

In the Senate. Joan bas been my mentor. Her great service as
Chairman and Deputy Chairman ot the Standing Senate
Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs bas been noted
and acknowledged by government, opposition and independent
senators tbrougbout tbe years. 1 Iearned a great deal by just trying
t() follow in ber footsteps. Her most recent. massive effort as
Chairman of the Special Senate Committee on Eutbanasia and
Assisted Suicide put the icing on the cake of ber years of
conscientious. intelligent and compassionate service in this
chamber.
Senator Neiman*s departure will be a sad loss. not only - and
particularly - for the government side of this chamber, but for
the chamber as a wbole. May 1 add my own good wisbes and
those of my wife, Marg. to Joan and Clem and their family. To
Joan. 1 wish good bealtb and many years of life in wbicb to enjoy
a well-deserved retirement.

Hon. Marcel Prud'homme: Senator Neiman. 1 wisb the very

bcst for you. Everything bas been mentioned except for one
tbing.

1 bave known you as a resuit of our association in the
Inter-Parliamentary Union. wbicb we bave served for so many
years. You were chairperson of the Human Rigbts Commission
f'or many years. Your work aIl over the world on these issues may
flot bave been known in Canada, or even in the Senate. bowever
just last weekend a female parliamentarian lrom Geneva. wbo
was aware that you bad cbaired the Special Senate Committee on
Eutbanasia and Assisted Suicide, kindly asked me to send ber
10 copies of your report. This illustrates that your work is known
not only in the Senate and across Canada, but also witbin certain
international institutions. You are well remembhered there. You
will be weIl remembered by me. 1 wisb you good luck.

Hon. Jerahmiel S. Graîstein: Honourable senators. Senator
Joan Neiman seems so young, so vibrant, so energetic. 50
intellectually engaged, tbat I was surprised today to find that ber
retirement was quickly approacbing. 1 just simply cannot believe
't.

1 bave had the privilege of sitting witb Senator Neiman on a
number of committees and in caucuses. At aIl times, Joan's was a
voice of moderation, a voice of reason. a voice of great tactical
skiff, a voice of intelligence and, above aIl, she was always
courteous, even to those witb wbomn I know she violently
disagreed, including me.
Having said that. bonourable senators. Joan is no angel. My
roots in the Liberal Party go back to the early sixties wben Joan
and ber busband Clem were considerable and aggressive political
forces. While we sbared many views about the Liberal Party and
the importance of it, on many occasions we found ourselves on
different sides and supporting different personalities. However.
tbroughout that wbole period. our personal relationsbip was good
and sound. and always pleasant.
The Neimans were - and are - considerable political
activists. deeply committed to the public affairs of' Canada at
eacb level of political activity. Theirs is one ot those great stories
wbicb. as alluded to by Senator Stanbury. is rarely told about the
ile of oui party.
political lieOfur COIt- n

I Senaloi

Stllnhuil. 1

Joan goes on to a well-deserved retirement, but 1 do flot think
it will be a rest. 1 tbink it will be the start of yet another. equally
new. exciting and energetie career. 1 want to tbank both Senator
Neiman and her busband. Clem, for the pleasure of their
company.

Hon. Wilbert J. Keon: Honourable senators. I also should
like to take tbis opportunity to wisb Senator Neiman weIl. I had
the privilege of spending more time with her over the past year
than 1 would have liked. However, 1 was truiy impressed with ber
tremendous legal knowledge, ber tremendous experience. ber
tremendous dedication. ber tremendous tlexibility in bending to
other people's strong convictions whicb were in contradiction
witb ber own. and ber ability to listen to witnesses witb an
objective mmnd. consequently cbampioning a report which 1 bave
bad the privilege of' presenting in the medical community.
As 1 mentioned in my previous brief remarks, I had tbe
privilege of presenting the contents of' tbis report across the
country in a telemedicine conference to medical scbools as well
as to many of our bealth care institutions. Ail comments 1
reccived about the report were very complimentary. 1 bave
received several letters requesting copies of it.
We had some ver difficult times in tbe committee trying to
keep our scribes on course. and trying to get a working consensus
in order to corne out witb a reasonable result. Tbe success of that
report is Senator Neiman's success. It was ber ability to bold
tbings togetber as a chairperson that made it ail work.
Senator Neiman. 1, too. wisb you very well. It was a great
pleasure and bonour to work witb you on this committee. 1 hope
you bave a wonderful retirement, and 1 hope to sec more ol you.

Hon. M. Lorne Bonneli: Honourable senators. 1 did îîut
realiLe what a great seatmate 1 bad until today. 1 took Senator
Neiman f'or granted until now. and now 1 bate to sec this great
and dynamic person ]eave. Everytbing we beard about ber today
is true. Senators do flot lie.
Joan. 1 wiIl miss you. You bave been a great companion.
altbough we did flot always agree.
With regard to the report of tbe committee on eutbanasia.
whicb she cbaired so wel. 1 was prepared to -ive her a bard time
about it because 1 tbougbt sbe would recommend that we start
killing people, wbich 1 was dead against.
As Senator Prud*homme said, Senator Neiman was the
chairman of the Human Rigbts Committee of the parliaments of
the world. She bas often raised tbe issue of the imprisonient of
parliamentarians around the world. Sbe fougbt Io bave tbem
released. She worked at that for many years and did an excellent
jIob of it.
In Iigbt of ber work in that area. 1 told ber that il sbe wanted to
recomrnend that we start killing people. 1 would give ber a bard
time. Tbank God that my doctor friend. Senator Keon. af'ter
workinLg so bard to save lives. would flot reconîmiend that we
stant to LIIIl people. 1 wisb to coiigratulate Senator Neimian l'or bier
bard x\ork on that conmittee.

July 13, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

More important than ail of that are the times we had together
in the parliamentary dining room. We generally dined there at the
same time and had some very dynamic discussions at the round
table. We did not always agree. Joan's view was often different
from my own, and she has a good legal mind with which to argue
her position. However, I am quite sure that I influenced some of
her actions in the committee, and may have influenced her to
bend somewhat, as Senator Keon has said that she did.
I will miss you, Joan. I hope that my next seatmate will be as
young and as beautiful as you, and as easy to get along with. We
will all miss you. May you have a very happy retirement.
Hon. Senators: Hear, hear!
Hon. Joan Neiman: Honourable senators, I thank you for all
the lovely bouquets. I will press them in my memory book and
trot them out for my children to read every Mother's Day.
George Burns said that you can tell that a man is getting old
when he bends down to lace his shoes and wonders what else he
can do while he is down there. I gave up high button shoes a long
time ago, so this date is coming as a bit of a shock to me, I must
say.
When I think back over the years that I have been here, I
realize how much this chamber has changed. Senator Oison and I
were talking yesterday about how different the chamber is, and
how differently we conduct our business today.

2043

there was not as much controversy then as there is today. The
opposition at that time was very small: and only a few
committees had any permanent staff.
My committee beginnings were on the Standing Senate
Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs and on the
Special Senate Committee on Science and Technology with
Senator Lamontagne as the chairman. It was an eye-opening
experience because my training and interests had been in the
humanities field. It was a wonderful experience to be on that
committee with Senator Lamontagne and to realize, in the end,
what a special study in this Senate could accomplish. That study
certainly changed, immeasurably, the national and government
institutions, and indeed the progress of science in Canada.
To be a member of the Legal and Constitutional Affairs
Committee under Senator Goldenberg was a wonderful learning
experience for me. I thoroughly enjoyed being a member of that
committee all the years I was here.
Honourable senators, as parliamentarians, we have many
opportunities in the Senate to accomplish things outside the
legislative field. I decided early on that I would confine myself to
one parliamentary committee, and that was the Interparliamentary Union. That involvement provided me the
opportunity to learn about and understand people around the
world. I was especially fortunate to become active in the human
rights field.

When I arrived here, I was perhaps only the seventh or eighth
woman senator to have been appointed. This room seemed to be
filled with white-haired people, overwhelmingly male. They
were courtly; many of them were portly; a number of them were
very good speakers, in fact orators.

One of my greatest feelings of accomplishment stems from my
travels to Malaysia and Indonesia as a representative of the
Human Rights Committee. Two of us went there to persuade the
heads of those countries to release political prisoners, one of
whom had been in prison for over 20 years. It was a delicate and
difficult mission. It gave me a great deal of satisfaction when all
those people were released over the next couple of months.

They were so kind to me as a new member. They taught me.
Senator Choquette, who sat in front of me, prided himself on his
command of the English language. He used to listen to me very
carefully, and correct me if I was not using proper grammar at
any time. He would then give me a little lecture about how we
really should not read our speeches. Unfortunately, that is still a
bad habit of mine.

Honourable senators, it is progress on difficuit issues such as
that that I believe the Senate can accomplish. Senators have
tremendous opportunities to realize significant goals, not only as
part of their parliamentary functions, but also outside their duties
in parliament for the good of Canadians and the peoples of the
world.

0(1120)

Mr. Fortier, a wonderful man, was the Clerk of the Senate at
that time. He not only knew his rules, he knew parliamentary
history. He loved to chat about what had gone on here. He
reminded me so much of Senator Forsey who came along a little
later. Senator Forsey became my great friend and mentor. From
time to time, we did get into some rebellious actions. He
stimulated exciting thought and controversy in this chamber. It
was a pleasure to have served here with Senator Forsey.
When I was first appointed to this place, our committee
meetings were run somewhat differently. As Senator Oison said,
in those days we took a rather cavalier attitude to legislation,
with a bill sometimes being dealt with in one day. Obviously,

Of course, there are frustrations. I have been frustrated more
than once in my time here. I can recall within six weeks of being
here that I mentioned to Senator Connolly that I thought I would
make a speech one day on the reform of the Senate. He said to
me, "Now, Joan, just sit back for a little while and listen to what
is going on and you will begin to understand that this business is
a little more complicated and harder to untangle than you think it
is right now." That was good advice. We are still struggling with
that issue.
Honourable senators, I hope there will be changes. I always
hoped that I would be here when there were some significant
changes made, not only to the Senate, but to the parliamentary
system. I hope this government will find the will to go ahead
with some of them.

Honourable senators. 1 am happy that my career in the Senate
did end with the report of the Special Senate Comrnittee on
Euthanasia and Assisted Suicide being adopted. It was a
marveilous experience to work with the people 1 served with and
to hear what I did. 1 arn most grateful to the members ot tbat
committee for their outstanding effort. because it took aIl of' us.
in a truly concerted effort. to produce the kind of report we
finally harnmered out.

No one, bonourable senators. ever cxpressed the love of'
Parliarnent more beautifully than Sir Wilfrid Laurier when he
said:

Honourable senators. one mission remains unaccomplished. It
relates to a request by my husband frorn whomn 1 received
23 roses the other day in commemoration of my years bere. Each
one of the 1,000 trips be made to drive rne to the airport was
stresstui because 1 could neyer organize myscîf in tirne to leave
for the airport. 1 always promised 1 would be organized and ready
the next time. but 1 was neyer able to do it. We covered the
20 miles with my husband muttering to bimself, "You know 1
have a heart condition. You know this stress might cause an
ulcer. You promised me last lime we would not do tbis.,' but it
happened on every occasion. right up to the very last trip.

I believe that Laurier meant that Parliament symbolized our
unity and diversity. and 1 hope Carol. Catherine. Natalie and
Yannick will always remember this place in that way. 1 hope
further that you will rememher tbat. no matter what road you
seek in life. you wili always be. in your OWfl special way. the
marbie. and the granite and the oak from which the Canada of the
future will be shaped.

The roses and the mernories mean a lot to me. I regret, for his
sake, that I did not manage this one last undertaking he requested
of me. He wanted me to introduce a motion in the Senate 10
study ways of Ioosening the tics wiîh the monarcby. He said it
would be a great contribution to initiate that debate in the Senate.
However, I kept puîîing it off. I promised that if we managed to
complete our committee report in good lime. 1 would sec what 1
could do about it. Honourable senators. I can just imagine the
controversy that suhject-matter would have caused. Perhaps it is
just as well that 1 am leaving when 1 arn.
Honourable senators. 1 do not want to leave without tbanking
ail the members of the Senate. the table officers. the Gentleman
Usher of the Black Rod. and ail the staff. Every employee bere
whomn I have had anything to do with bas been kind and
courtcous ail these years. It bas been a pleasure to be bere and
work with you aIl. every one of you. 1 tbank you again.

Hon. Senators: Hear. bear!
THE SENATE
TRI BUTES 10 PAGES AND TO STAFF

Hon. B. Aiasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourable senators, I would like to take a
moment 10 thank the four pages who bave served in the Senate
witb sucb dedication over the lasi two years and wbo are now
Ieaving us t0 pursue their vanious educational and professional
interests.
Carol Taylor is moving 10 Montreal 10 teacb mnusic and will he
publishing an autobiograpby sometime in the faîl. Catherine
Berger will pursue her fourtb year at Ottawa University 10 obtain
a specialization in mathematics and computers. Natalie Slawinski
intends 10 continue ber studies at Carleton in politicai science
and bistory. Yannick Hébert pursues bis studies in the summer at
Ottawa University to compiete a Bachelor of' Commerce witb
specialization iii accouniting. and be bas been bired by a private
Ottawa firn1 t0 start work in September.

1 Seciator Neîiuafli 1

This cathedral is made of' marbie. oak and granite ....JIt is the
image of the nation 1 would like to sec Canada become. I
want the marble to remain marble. the granite to remain
granite and the oak to remain oak.

1 hope you have learned sometbing of' value in this place. We
are aIl grateful for your rnany kindnesses and your unfailing
courtesy. You have served this chamber in the best tradition of
the hundreds of pages who preceded you. those who remain. and
surely those who wiIl follow for many years into the future.
Congratulations, good luck. and God bless you aIl.
Hon. Senators: Hear. hear!
Senator Graham: As we approach the summer break. may 1
also express our gratitude to each and every member of the
Senate staff. both iii the chamber and outside. for their
outstanding work and continuing dedication to this place.

Hon. Noël A. Kinsella: Honourable senators. on behaîf' of'
colleagues on this side 0f the chamber. we join witb the words of'
the Deputy Leader of the Government in expressing our gratitude
to this group of pages wbo are leaving us and to ail those wbo
support the work of' this chamber in various capacities as we
enter the summer period.
We express a special vote of thanks to Carol Taylor, Catherine
Berger, Natalie Slawinski. and Yannick Hebert. the pages wbo
are leaving us at this time.
Honourabie senators. the competition that is conducted by the
Senate when seeking pages across Canada is a higbly
competitive program. In rnany ways, I think it is truc t0 say that
we get the creamn of' the crop. I hope the pages who arc selected
to corne and serve in this chamber will share their experiences
with many others tbrough the various careers that they will
pursue in a symbolic and a real way. tor it is but a small number
wbo get to serve here out of the many who seek to serve.
In ciosing. 1 say to Carol Taylor. who will be pursuing a career
in music, that. while cverything she heard in this chamber may
not have sounded like music, she take guidance from the great
patron of' music. Saint Cecilia. ratber than trom wbat she may
have heard in this chamber.
1 say Io Catherine Berger. who 1 understand is going on to
specialize inin athernatics. Senator Hebert and 1. wbo try to keep
nuibers sti-aight, iieht bav e to appeal to ber mnathematicai
skilis. anid wse wsish ii e cl intbhît [ield.

July
13.
995SENATE
DEBATES

July 13, 1995

2045
24

Natalie Slawinsky is carrying on in the field of political
science and history, and 1 arn sure that we will hear from her in a
variety of capacities. The political experience gained here might
be of help to her.

We, the undersigned citizens of Canada, wish to protest
the following provisions in Bill C-68:

Finally, to Yannick Hébert, who is completîng his Bachelor of
Commerce degree with a specialization in accounting, 1 trust that
the work of the chamber and the work hie may have seen flowing
from the National Finance Committee will be of some profit to
him in his career.

2. The requirement of a Firearms Possession Certificate
to replace the Firearms Acquisition Certiticate.

On behaîf of the members of the opposition, we wish God
speed to those pages.

4. Provisions that will ban the purchase and use of .25 and
.32 caliber handguns and handguns with a barre! length of
less than 4.14 inches.

Hon. Senators: Hear, hear!

1. The universal registration of long guns.

3. Registration and controls on the purchase of
ammunition.

5. Regulation by Order in Council.

[Translation]

Therefore your petitioners humbly pray and caîl upon
Parliament to refrain from passing Bill C-68 as it presently
stands with the above-mentioned provisions.

ROYAL ASSENT
NOTICE

The Hon. the Speaker informed the Senate that the following
communication had been received:
RIDEAU HALL

0 (1140)

QUESTION PERIOD
July 13, 1995

Sir,
I have the honour to inform you that The Honourable
Peter deC. Cory, Puisne Judge of the Supreme Court of
Canada, in his capacity as Deputy Govemor General, will
proceed to the Senate Chamber today, the l3th day of July
1995, at 12:30 p.m., for the purpose of giving Royal Assent
to, certain buis.
Yours sincerely,
Anthony P. Smyth
Deputv Secretarv, Polic.v, Program and Protocol

The Honourable
The Speaker of the Senate
Ottawa
[En glish]

ROUTINE PROCEEDINGS
FIREARMS BILL
PRESENTATION 0F PETITION

Hon. Leonard J. Gustafson: Honourable senators, 1 have a
petition to Parhiament assembled on Bill C-68, the Firearms Act.

DELAYED ANS WERS TO ORAL QUESTIONS
Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourable senators, I have several delayed
answers. 1 have a response to a question raised in the Senate on
May 3, 1995, by the Honourable Senator Pierre Claude Nolin,
regarding discussions with provinces on Manpower training; a
response to a question raised in the Senate on May 23, 1995, by
the Honourable Senator Forrestail, regarding the
Federal-Provincial Strategic Highway Improvement Program;
another response to a question raised in the Senate on May 24,
1994, by the Honourable Senator Forrestaîl regarding the
Federal-Provincial Strategic Highway Improvement Program;
and a response to a question raised by the Honourable Gerald J.
Comeau on May 24, 1995, regarding the Federal-Provincial
Strategic Highway Improvement Program.
I also have a response te, a question raised in the Senate on
May 25, 1995, by the Honourable Senator Comeau, regarding the
Federal-Provincial Strategic Highway Improvement Program.
I have a response to a question raised in the Senate on May 25,
1995, by the Honourable Senator Forrestail, regarding the
Federal-Provincial Strategic Highway Improvement Program. I
have a response to a question raised in the Senate on May 25,
1995, by the Honourable Senator LoweIl Murray, regarding the
Federal-Provincial Strategic Highway Improvement Program; a
response to a question raised in the Senate on June 5, 1995, by
the Honourable Senator Di Nino regarding the protest over
granting a visa to a Taiwanese officiai; and a response to
questions raised in the Senate on April 5, 1995, and June 6, 1995,
by the Honourable Senator Lowell Murray regarding remarks by
Senator Stollery on Mexico.

1 aiso have a response to a question raiscd in the Senate on
June 6. 1995. by the Honourable Senator Forrestali. regarding tbe
Federai-Provinciai Strategic Highway Improvement Program. 1
have a response to a question raised in the Senate on June 14,
1995. by the Honourable Senator Andreychuk, regarding the
commitment of' France to continuing nuclear testing. 1 have a
response to a question raised in the Senate on June 20. 1995. by
the Honourabie Senator Ottenheimer. regarding the United
Nations, and possible changes to, the application ot the 'veto; a
response to a question raised in the Senate on June 22, 1995, by
the Honourabie Senator Spivak. regarding the Royal Winnipeg
Ballet and loss of student grants due to budget cuts: a response to
a question raised in the Senate on June 27, 1995. by the
Honourabie Senator St. Germain. regarding job creation.

HUMAN RESOURCES
DISCUSSIONS WITII PROVINCES ON MANPOWER TRAININGGOVERNMENT POSITION

(Resp)onse to question raised bY Hon. Pierre Claude Nolin on
MaY 3, 1995)
An offer was made in June 1994 10 ail provinces.
inciuding Quebec, to give tbem mucb more responsibility
and flexibility for federal labour market programs.
Under this agreement, provinces wouid be able 10 plan an
extensive array of' federai labour market programs such as
institutional training. workpiace training and job creation. In
Quebec. last year. the amount allocated to tbese programs
hy the federal government was vaiued at about 60 per cent
($180M) of tbe federai labour market program budget.
Provinces wouid manage purchase of institutionai
training on bebaîf of unempioyed Canadians. Tbe proposed
agreement wouid give that important responsibiiity to the
provinces. This offer would aiso make possible provincial
planning and impiementation of "single windows- wbere
people couid go and have access to ai! provincial and
federal labour market programs and services.
This would not oniy be a major improvement in tbe
deiivery of' services; it would aiso reduce any overiap and
duplication that niay currentiy exist.
Finaiiy. the otier wouid give provinces responsibiiity for
the management of other programs that are very important
for Quebecers sucb as Co-operative Education and the
Canada Employment Centres tor Students.
Unlike some of ber counterparts in other provinces. sucb
as in Saskatchewan, Quebec's Minister f'or Empioymient and
Training bas cbosen 10 reetî tbis latest federal offer.

1 Senlati

i afliain 1

The federal governiment. however. will continue to
cooperate fruitfuiiy witb Quebec and other provinces in a
number of areas such as strategic initiatives. This wiii
continue in the context of the new programming.
The federal governiment is committed to making real
progress witb provinces in the area of' labour market
programmmng.

TRANSPORT
FEDERAL-PROVINCIAL- STRATEGIC HIGHWAY
IMPROVEMENT PROCRAM -CANADA NOVA SCOTIA AGREEMENTDIVERSION 0F FUNDS TO CAPE BRETON PROJECTGOVERNMENT POSITION

(Respon4e to question rai sed bY Hon. J. Michael Forrestali on
Mai, 23, 1995)
There have been tolis on the Trans-Canada Highway in
the past. The Canso Causeway, which links the
Trans-Canada Higbway on the mainland with the
Trans-Canada Highway on Cape Breton Island, was once a
toi! faciiity. Additionaiiy. wbiie not as part of the
Trans-Canada Higbway system, other provinces presentiy
operate tol highways and have done so in the past. British
Columbia presentiy bas a tli bighway; Quebec. in the past.
bad severai toi highways; and Ontario is presently
constructing a toi! bighway in Toronto.
FEDERAL-PROVINCIAL STRATEGIC IIIGIIWAY
IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM -DISCUSSIONS BETWEEN MINISTERS ON
DIVERSION 0F FUNDS FROM NOVA SCOTIA FIIGHWAY PROJECIREQUEST FOR PARTICUI ARS

(Respionse ro question raised bi, Hon. J. Michael Forrestail on1
Mai,24, 1995)
1 will have the Strategic Highway Improvement Program
Agreement. as weii as other documentation that is availabie.
tabied.
FEDERAL-PROVINCIAL, STRATEGIC HIGIHWAY
IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM INTRODUCTION 0F
TOLL BOOTHS ON TRANS-CANADA HIGHWAY

(Response to a question raised bx' Honi. Gerald . Lorneau onl
MaY 24, 1 995)
No. The Canso Causeway in Cape Breton is part of the
Trans-Canada Highway and it had toits on it from when it
opened on May 21, 1955, until they were removed on
December 13, 1991.
Yes. there is nothing in the Trans-Canada Higbway Act or
in the associated agreements that prohibits touls.

July 13, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

FEDERAL-PROVINCIAL STRATEGIC HIGHWAY
IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM-NOVA SCOTIA-DIVERSION OF FUNDS
FROM DESIGNATED PROJECT-KNOWLEDGE OF TRANSACTION BY
PRIME MINISTER-GOVERNMENT POSITION

(Response to question raised by Hon. Gerald J. Coineau on
Mav 25, 1995)

The process established over many years, since at least
the early seventies, and exercised many times with each
province with which the federal government has highway
agreements is that, at the request of a province, changes are
accommodated within existing funding limits of highway
agreements. These agreements are made between the
respective Ministers of Transport.
FEDERAL-PROVINCIAL STRATEGIC HIGHWAY
IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM-NOVA SCOTIA-DIVERSION OF FUNDS
FROM DESIGNATED PROJECT-ALTERNATE METHODS OF
FUNDING-GOVERNMENT POSITION

Causeway and was collected as vehicles passed from the
mainland to Cape Breton.
FEDERAL-PROVINCIAL STRATEGIC HIGHWAY
IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM-NOVA SCOTIA-DIVERSION OF FUNDS
TO PROJECTS NOT COVERED BY AGREEMENTSGOVERNMENT POSITION

(Response to question raised by Hon. Lowell Murrav on
May' 25, 1995)

Yes, a province is free to divert monies from such an
agreement to other highway projects not covered in the
agreement with the agreement of the federal Minister of
Transport. The province decides which, where, when, and
how highway projects are to be funded and how the amount
of money agreed to with the federal government is to be
apportioned amongst projects while recognizing that the
funds from a particular agreement, or part thereof, may
represent only a portion of the funds needed to complete
said portion, part, or piece of a project.

(Response to question raised by Hon. J. Michael Forrestallon
May 25, 1995)

In the preamble to the question posed by Senator
Forrestall, a reference is made to an earlier oral response by
the Leader of the Government in the Senate which
recognized that remarks had been made about "other
significant national highways." The preamble further
referred to "significant Canadian highways, possibly even
connectors to the Trans-Canada highways."
There are currently tolls being charged on that portion of
the National Highway System known as the Coquehalla
Highway, at 12 tollbooths located approximately one third
of the way between Merrit and Hope, B.C.. Tolls also are
collected by three bridge authorities which have been
established under provincial statutes to operate bridges
which connect parts of the National Highway System: these
tolls are collected on two bridges in the Halifax/Dartmouth
area, namely the A. Murray MacKay Bridge and the
Angus L. Macdonald Bridge, linking Halifax/Dartmouth to
Highway 101 to Yarmouth and Highway 102 to Truro, as
well as on the Saint John Harbour Bridge in New Brunswick
which links Highway 7 (Saint John to Fredericton) and
Highway 1 (Sussex to St. Stephen.)
There are currently no tolls on any highway designated as
a "Trans-Canada Highway." Tolls were charged between
1955 and 1991 on that portion of the Trans-Canada
Highway known as the Canso Causeway in Nova Scotia.
The toll booth was located on the mainland entrance to the

CANADA-CHINA RELATIONS
PROTEST OVER GRANTING OF VISA TO TAIWANESE OFFICIALGOVERNMENT POSITION

(Response to question raised byv Hon. Consiglio Di Nino on
June 5, 1995)

The Taiwanese Vice-Premier, Hsu Li-teh, came to Canada
to receive an honourary degree on June 1, 1995. The
Government of China filed a formal diplomatic protest over
this visit which stated that the decision to grant the visa to a
Taiwan official violates the principles underlying
Canada-China bilateral relations.
Canada made clear that this visit in no way signifies a
shift in Canada's "One-China Policy." Canada pointed out
that the visit resulted from a private invitation from the
University of Victoria to Mr. Hsu to receive an honourary
degree. In addition, the degree was conferred on Mr. Hsu in
his capacity as Chairman of the Council of Economic
Development and Planning of Taiwan and not as
Vice-Premier.
Mr. Hsu's visit to Canada was entirely private and limited
to a short period of time - four days. Mr. Hsu had no
official meetings and did not make any public appearances
other than the convocation at the University of Victoria.
Thus, this private visit does not in any way constitute a shift
in Canada's "One-China Policy."

FOREIGN AFFAIRS
REMARKS 0F SENATOR STOLLERY ON MEXICO POSSIBILITY 0F
CANADAS WITHDRAWAL FROM NAF TA GOVERNMENT POSITION

(Response to questions raised bY Hon. Lowell MurraY on
April 5, 1995 and Jue 6, 1995)
In response to tbe April 4tb speecb by Senator Peter
Stoiiery concerning Mexico, tbe position of the government
is tbat Mexico's current economic woes are in no way
caused by the NAFTA. nor sbould tbey iead us to doubt the
value of the Agreement. Quite tbe contrary: tbe NAFTA is
ciearly a major success and we intend to press abead with its
expansion. the next country to join being Cbile.
In 1994 tbe Canadian economy expanded by 4.5"/. The
International Monetary Fund predicts that. in 1995, Canada
will again iead economic growtb among tbe G-7 countries.
Tbis growtb is export led. and tbe NAFTA is piaying a
cnitical part in it.
The statistics are telling:
In i1994. tbe tirst year of NAFTA, Canada's mercbandise
exports to tbe USA increased by 235c, to Mexico by 27e/-.
In spite of tbe drastic devaluation of' tbe peso. Canadian
exports to Mexico in tbe first quarter ol' 1995 are keeping
pace witb our exports over tbe same period in 1994.
Trade in goods and services between the NAFTA
partners now supports nmore tban 1.5 million jobs in
Canada and dîrectiy generates over 251/ of our GDP.
In terms of exports relative to GDP. we now export
more than Japan and Germany.
Mexico's entry into the NAFTA bas aliowed Canadian
iirms to expand sales in sectors tbat were previousiy bigbiy
restricted, sucb as autos, financiai services, trucking, energy
and fisberies. Our export mix bas broadened draînatically
and we expect recently-announced privatisation plans to
create more opportunities f'or Canadian firms in
te lecom muni cations, ports. airports, power stations and
petrochemicals.
Tbe economic f'undamentals of Mexico are sound.
Analysts tbe world over believe tbat tbe recent crisis in
Mexico was essentiaily one of' confidence. and that full
recovery is only a matter of' time. Wben tbat recovery
comes. NAFTA wili aiiow Canadian exporters to reap tbe
tullest possible benef'its from it.
At the June 15-17 Halifax Summit. the Prime Minister
and other G-7 leaders togetber pubiicly welcomied the
positive economie turni of' e ents ii Mexico. Tbe Prime
Minister and the leaders of' other G-7 countries ,nd RIissia

1Senatoi

t3iaI1.1iu

J

also pubiicly stated their support for "Mexico's bold steps
towards politicai reform and dialogue."
Whiie the Mexican authorities did flot make either an
inf«ormai or a formai protest with the goverfiment regarding
the April 4. 1995. speech by Senator Stollery, the Mexican
Embassy did informaiiy contact the government f'or a
reaffirmation of' its poiicy on Mexico which continues as
described above.

TRANSPORT
FEDERAL -PROVINCIAL STRATEGIC HIGHWAY
IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM NOVA SCOTIA FREEZINGO0F FUNDS
TO AWAIT OUTCOME 0F INOUIRY 0F AUDITOR GENERALGOVERNMENT POSITION

(Response to question raised bY Hon. J. Michael Forrestali on
Jue 6, 199-5>
The Auditor General has indicated that. in the course of'
the review thus f'ar, there is nothing to report. The Auditor
Generai is carrying out bis responsibilities and. if he finds
anytbing to report, he wili do so.
The Trans-Canada Higbway is not a federal higbway.
Like other highways. it is under provincial jurisdiction. The
Government of' Canada respects provincial jurisdiction
concerning bighways and is responsive to provincial
requests for amendments to federal/provincial higbway
agreements.
agreements dealing witb
The two higbway
federai/provinciai funding for bigbway projects in Nova
Scotia clearly contain clauses aiiowing for amendments to
be made. as do agreements with ail provinces.
There is no justification f'or directing any or ail] provinces
to put their bigbway programs on boid. as virtuaiiy every
province bas been invoived in amendments to its original
bigbway agreements.
Decisions regarding touls are. similariy. a matter of'
provincial jurisdiction on provincial bigbways. Tolls bave
existed previousiy on tbe Trans-Canada Higbway in Nova
Scotia, on a portion known as the Canso Causeway, [rom
1955 to 1991.

EXTERNAL RELATIONS
COMMIENT 0F FRANCE TO CONTINUINO NUCLEAR TESTINGGOVERNMENT POSITION

(RespIonise to question raised bY Hon. A. RaYnell Andrevcuk
on lune 14, 1995)
Canada reorets the decision bv France to reSUme nuclear
testing.

SENATE DEBATES

July 13, 1995

Canada does, however,
commitment to a detinitive
1996, at the latest, and
Comprehensive Test Ban
"without reservations."

2049

welcome President Chirac's
end to French testing by May
France's accession to the
Treaty (CTBT) at that time

group in New York that is examining al] aspects of security
council reform. Canada welcomes the post-Cold War trend
towards a diminished use of the veto by the permanent
members of the security council. We very much hope that
this trend will continue.

Canada hopes that this decision will not undermine the
commitment of the other nuclear weapon states to
maintaining their announced moratorium on nuclear testing
and that the negotiations toward a CTBT will continue to
move forward vigorously.

This latest report is timely, coming as it does in the
fiftieth anniversary year of the United Nations. It is the
government's intention to examine it closely and work with
other countries to implement practicable and meaningful
measures of reform. At the same time, it is important to
recognize that over the years there has already been
considerable reform of the UN and that this is a process
which will have to continue. There will always be a need to
update and reinvigorate an organization which is as
important to the world as is the UN.

Canada was pleased to join the other seven participants in
the Halifax Summit in supporting the Chairman's
Statement:
"We are encouraged by the growing international
recognition of the need to complete without delay universal,
comprehensive and verifiable treaties to ban nuclear
weapons tests and to cut off the production of fissile
material for nuclear weapons and other nuclear explosive
devices."
This decision by France demonstrates the urgent
requirement for an early conclusion to the CTBT
negotiations.
UNITED NATIONS
POSSIBLE CHANGES TO APPLICATION OF VETOGOVERNMENT POLICY

(Response to question raised by Hon. Gerald R. Ottenheiner
on June 20, 1995)

The independent working group on the future of the
United Nations, established by UN Secretary General
Boutros Boutros-Ghali in 1993, published its report June 19.
The Canadian government has just received the report and
will be studying it closely.
Canada strongly supports the need for careful reform of
the UN as the global body charged with working for
international peace and security, sustainable development,
and human rights and the rule of law. The Minister of
Foreign Affairs and the Prime Minister have both spoken in
depth on reforming the United Nations in recent months.
The recent Halifax Summit devoted considerable
attention to UN reform and put forward a number of
concrete proposals which it is intended should be pursued
over the coming months in the appropriate forums.
There are several high level groups already established in
the UN itself; notably on reform of the security council. of
UN finances. and of the system of assessment. Canada is a
member of these bodies.
The question of the use of the veto is one of the most
sensitive issues being considered by the high level working

CANADA COUNCIL
ROYAL WINNIPEG BALLET-LOSS OF STUDENT GRANTS DUE TO
BUDGET CUTS-POSSIBILITY OF ALTERNATURE FUNDINGGOVERNMENT POSITION

(Response to question byv Hon. Mira Spivak on June 22, 1995)

This govemment recognizes the importance of ensuring
the continuity of professional modern dance in Canadian
society. For this reason, HRDC has established the Cultural
Human Resources Council (CHRC) to develop
industry-driven solutions to human resource development
issues.

Discussions are currently underway on an Industrial
Adjustment Agreement to clarify the roles of national
training institutions and initiatives in the cultural sector and
to identify sources of adequate funding. This process will be
managed by the CHRC and participation will be solicited
from the major national training institutions/initiatives in the
cultural sector as well as from the Canada Council and the
Department of Canadian Heritage.
HRDC will continue to work with its partners to explore
possible funding sources for pre-professional training
institutes such as the Royal Winnipeg Ballet.
HRDC is currently assisting the Royal Winnipeg Ballet
through its Student Career Placement program. The Royal
Winnipeg Ballet could also contact CHRC for information
about the Training Initiatives Program administered by
CHRC and the application process for nationally managed
projects which are recommended by CHRC. This would
also give the Ballet the opportunity to learn about, and
become involved in, the work of CHRC towards a human
resources development strategy for cultural workers.
While this government has long provided funding for
post-secondary education to further the achievement of a
wide range of national economic, social. and cultural
objectives. it should he noted that post-secondary and

academic education remains the jurisdiction of' the
provincial govemments. However. HRDC will continue to
work with the provinces and stakeholders to ensure that
Canadians have access to a post-secondary education that
will serve them weil in the future.

NATIONAL FINANCE
JOB CREATION-GOVERNMENT

POLICY

(Response to question raised b-v Hon. Gerrv St. Germnain on
lune 27, 1995)
The department of Human Resources Development
Canada (HRDC) has severai programs aimed ai job
creation. Section 25 -Job Creation of the Unemipioyment
Insurance Program assists unempioyed workers to get back
into the workforce by maintaining and enhancing their skills
whiie eceiving UI benefits when other employment is not
available. In 1994-95, approximateiy 26,000 jobs were
created under Section 25 of the UI Program.

HRDC also offers the Seif-Employment Assistance
(SEA) component which heips unemployed people to start
their own business by providing income and technical
support through eariy stages of' business creation. Since
November 1993. SEA has heiped more than
42,861 Canadians to start their own business.
Job Development provides training and/or work
experience t0 participants by contmibuting to training reiated
costs. wage subsidies, and other specified costs to
employers who carry oui projects. In 1994-95,
approximately 10,250 jobs were created under the Job
Deveiopment programn.
Job Opportunities provides employers with a wage
subsidy to hire selected clients. The objective of this
comiponent is to provide clients with job opportunities that
will likeiy lead to long-term employment. In 1994-95,
approximately 13,945 jobs were created under this progmam.
HRDC is now developing the Human Resources
Investment Fund (HRIF). HRIF's objective is 10 help people
find and keep jobs. Re-empioyment measures that work are
at the forefront of HRJF strategies. These measures are not
yet fuliy deveioped. However. based on preliminary
discussions and consultations. it is expected that they wiIi:

federal government's comprehensive action plan to assisi
youth. There has been a shift in funding from short term
make-work programs to programs which focus on school to
work transition with longer term benefits.
The Youth Internship Program <YIP) and Youth Service
Canada (YSC) are long-term interventions that help to
bridge the gap between school to work. Since 1994, under
YIP. over 5,600 jobs have been created and. under YSC.
over 1,850 jobs have been created.
The new Youth Entrepreneurship Program is designed to
help young Canadians, under age 30. to become
seif-sufficient by starting their own businesses. Several pilot
projects have been implemented with more to follow. The
pilots are testing new approaches such as innovative ways
of accessing credit. the establishment of workers'
cooperatives and sector targeting. To date, Youth
Entrepreneurship has created 541 jobs.
HRDC also otTers the Strategic Initiatives Program. This
program. through pilots which test new and alternative
approaches in employment and training. learning. and
income support services, tests ideas to help Canadians
dcvelop SUIS, get work, and participate more fully in
Society.

Hon. Eymard G. Corbin: Honourable senators. 1 apologuie to
the Deputy Leader of the Govemment in the Senate, but did he
have an answer to a previous question ot mine? 1 may have
missed that.
Senator Graham: 1 do not believe 1 have an answer yet l'or
Senator Corbin or l'or Senator Prud'homme. In the case of
Senator Prud'homme. the answer to his question involves more
than one department. Every effort is being made to obtain a
timely response f'or my honourable friend. That goes l'or
questions which may be outstanding for ail honourable senators.
If a response is not received before the house rises. then
obviousiy. time is running oui. The leader's office wiil provide
the response te, the honourabie senator in question as soon as it
becomes available, and it wiIi be tabled properiy as soon as we
retumn.

ORDERS 0F TUE DAY
JOINT PARLIAMENTARY DELEGATION TO BRAZIL,

develop the emiployability of individuais so they will
be equipped to participate in the economy; and
-

-support smail and medium business in creating jobs.
by removing barriers and disincentives 10 work.
As set oui in the red book, the comnmitment t0 youth is
being- met through several of HRDC's youth initiatives.
Student Summner job Action (SSJA). which ssill resuit in the
mmc
CreatiOn Of 44.500 SUI111l loS for- students. is part of

1Senaloi ci1-ahaii 1

OFFICIAL VISIT-INQUIRY-DEBATE ADJOURNED

Hon. H.A. Oison rose pursuant to notice of Tuesday. May 23.
1995:
That he wili eaul the attention of the Senate to the officiai
visit 10 Brazil of' the Joint Pariianientary Delegation of the
Senate and the flouse of1 Commions i mmi April 15 t0 2~ 1
1995.

July 13, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

He said: Honourable senators, it is not vital that I make these
comments today, except that it appears today will be the last day
that we will be here before the summer recess. Therefore, I
should like to make a few comments on the inter-parliamentary
group under your sponsorship and chairmanship, Your Honour,
when we visited Brazil a few weeks ago.

2051

the trip there. They will be looking to Canada for help in
becoming a member of some form of better trade arrangement,
whether it is a free trade arrangement or just some better trading
arrangement than they now enjoy.
0 (I150)

I wish particularly to draw the attention of honourable senators
to the very comprehensive report that has been filed in the Senate
with respect to the trip we made to Brazil in response to an
invitation extended by that country to the Senate and, more
specifically, to His Honour. I will be brief about this matter,
because that comprehensive report is available to honourable
senators.
The intersting thing about this trip was that we were invited to
Brazil to meet with a number of the parliamentarians and others
involved in economic and political activity in Brazil, after they
had been under a military dictatorship for four decades. In other
words, for approximately 40 years they had not exercised those
functions that take place in a democracy in terms of political
structure or economic structure in that country.

Our Speaker can take a great deal of credit for leading several
discussions with their politicians, their chambers of commerce
and other economic bodies as they attempt to move from the
form of govemment of the past 40 years to a new and successful
process.
Your Honour, I wish to express my appreciation to you and to
everyone else who was a part of that extremely successful trip.
On motion of Senator Berntson, for Senator MacDonald,
debate adjourned.

CANADA-UNITED STATES
INTER-PARLIAMENTARY GROUP

My impression is that, for the short time that their govemment
bas been involved in trying to set up a democratic process, such
as that enjoyed by some of the other countries in the world and they mentioned Canada in particular, which was probably
why we were invited - Brazil is doing very well. Their system
is not perfect; no one ever gets that close to perfection, but they
have been perfecting their system for slightly less than two years,
and they are doing well. As Canadians, we should be prepared to
help them, not only for their benefit but also for ours.

Hon. H.A. Oison rose pursuant to notice of June 20, 1995:

Prior to the country turning into a democracy - that is, when
it was a military dictatorship - they did not buy anything. I
cannot say that categorically, however, because they did not buy
on the international market or trade with countries any more than
they absolutely had to buy. For our benefit, I wish to tell you that,
in the last year, we sold them $250-million worth of wheat and
grain. That is especially important in the present international
market. That is to our benefit, and certainly to theirs.

He said: Honourable senators, this year's meeting of the
Canada-U.S. Inter-Parliamentary Group, which met in
Huntsville, Ontario, in May, was attended by an almostbrand-new group of members because of the Republicans' win in
the American election. The Democrats were thrown own out.

I want to close my comments by saying that we were taken on
some extremely interesting trips into the centre of the Amazon
jungle and into the rain forest. I was amazed at what we found
there. For example, we were taken to a city of 1.5 million people
in the rain forest. I had never realized that such a city existed in
the middle of the Amazonian rain forest.
You will remember, Your Honour, that we were also taken to
the opera bouse, which has existed longer than Canada has been
a country. That building dates back to the last century. The
Brazilians are very proud of it, and so they should be.
This was a particularly enlightening trip for me. There were
many exciting and enjoyable things associated with the trip,
however. it was extremely useful in cold-blooded economic
terms as well. I am sure that our hosts were grateful that we made

THIRTY-SIXTH ANNUAL MEETING HELD IN
HUNTSVILLE, ONTARIO-INQUIRY-DEBATE ADJOURNED

That he will call the attention of the Senate to the
Thirty-Sixth Annual Meeting of the Canada-United States
Inter-Parliamentary Group, held in Huntsville, Ontario, from
May 18 to 22, 1995.

In the U.S. govemment, whenever one party gains control of
either the Senate or of the House of Representatives, that party
elects all the committee chairmen. It was extremely important
that our group made the acquaintance of the Republicans who
have taken on these tasks. No matter how long they hold those
positions, we as parliamentarians in this inter-parliamentary
group must get acquainted with them in order to help resolve
problems such as trading disputes. This issue extends to other
countries as well.
A comprehensive report has been filed with the Senate. I invite
honourable senators to read it. The meeting worked out well. We
actually completed the work of the committee on economic
matters before the time set aside had expired. I cannot remember
that happening at any other occasion. We have always run out of
time before completing discussions on the economic irritants
between Canada and the United States.

On the Saturday. we held a late-nlight meeting on problcms
relating to sugar. Those problems are flot completely resolved.
but I have no doubt that meeting will contribute to a better
solution soon. There are arguments on both sides of' the border
about the damage being donc to the sugar industry. and even
greater economic damage will be donc if' a solution is flot
reached.
We discussed other issues such as fisheries, the steel industry
and the ongoing irritants in the grain trade between Canada and
the United States.
In conclusion, the meeting in Huntsville was very useful. We
were already familiar somewhat with the leading Democrats and,
as co-chairman of the Canada-U.S. section. along with MP Joe
Comuzzi. it was easy for me to pick up the phone and exchange
views and find solutions. 1 could give exam pIes of some
mutually satisfactory agreements which we have reached on
some international irritants.
Senator Grafstein also participated in those meetings and made
a useful contribution in becoming acqiîainted with members of
the United States delegation. 1 am sure that in the future, we can
look forward to further exchanges and mutually acceptable
agreements.
Hon. Jerahmiel S. Grafstein: Honourable senators. Senator
Oison was kind enough to mention my participation in the
meeting in Huntsville. 1 wouid like to comment on one aspect flot
mentioned by Senator Oison.
1 took a more active role iii this project at the behest of Senator
Oison. 1 found it both interesting and stimuiating. 1 was amazed
and remain so at the misconceptions that American legisiators
have about Canada and about our public policies. 1 know many
Canadians have many misconceptions about the United States,
but most members of this chamber have spent exhaustive time in
the United States and have a good grasp of their public policies
and processes and their private policies as weIi.
However. the reverse is flot the case. Notwithstanding the fact
that. as many of our prime ministers have said over the years. we
have the longest undefended border. we share much in common
and our trade tlows are the greatest in the worid.
1 should like to bring this to the Senate*s attention: In the
time-trame of the public business which was done in Huntsville.
time was afforded for some of us to spend some private time with
our American colleagues. 1 invited a ieading Republican from the
House and a ieading Republican trom the Senate to corne and
spend several hours with me in Toronto. Neither had been to
Toronto before. What they had heard about Toronto reiated to the
Blue Jays. I thought this was a great opportunity to spend a few
hours with them.
1 began by taking them to lunch at the CN Tower. where they
could get a good. physical view of the city. Then. in a car. I look
theni through the city for a couple ot hours. 1 drove them through
the specifie areas of the city that were replete with social
housing. 1 took theni to the worst areas of the eusy wbere rmanv of
uis would feel uncomifortable. iii the sense that it is not uip to the
standard of public lhousing that we would prefer.

1 Selialor ( l .oii 1

0

I2 1

1 kept saying. -We are now going through one of the worst
areas of the city.- They kept saying. "'Is this the worst area of the
city?" 1 would say, "N'es. it is.- However, what they were seeing
does flot compare to the worst bombed-out zones in New York,
Detroit, Houston. Los Angeles. Chicago or Miami -ail of
which 1 have driven through pretty quickiy by car.

Then we talked about medicare. They told me how they had
looked at the medicine care system in Canada and corne to the
conclusion that it was not appropriate for America because it did
flot work. It did flot work because research was flot good, service
was not good and because the public were flot attended to weii
enough -the whole catalogue of ilis about our medicare system.
Guess what? After they had taken a look at the hospitals. how
things were iocated and the efficiencies of' some of' the services,
many of them came away saying. "I did flot know that. That is
amazing. 1 arn sorry 1 did flot understafld that.- One senator had
taken a specific interest in medicare. and found that her particular
views had been sornewhat altered.
1 tell this as a personal anecdote because. as Senator Oison has
said. we in this chamber can do a great deai, particulariy in
institutions such as the Canada-U.S. committee. to remove the
deep and horrific misconceptions that Americans have about our
public policies. In that way. perhaps. we can also reduce the
miscofleeptions that some uitra-extremists in this country have
about our public policies as weil.
On motion of Senator Bemson. debate adjourned.
CIVIL JUSTICE REVIEW
INOUIRY-DEBATE ADJOURNED

Hon. Anne C. Cools rose pursuant to notice of Thursday.
June 22. 1995:
That she wiil eaui the attention of the Senate to the iirst
report entitied Civil Justice Review on the joint review ot
the civil justice system in Ontario by the Ontario Court of
Justice and the Ministry of the Attorney Generai of Ontario,
co-ehaired by the Honourable Mr. Justice Robert Blair and
the Assistant Deputy Attorney Generai. Ms. Sandra Land,
and in particular. Chapter 16 of the report, entitled "Focus
on Famiiy Law"; and te some recent trends ini the practice
of civil litigation and family iaw. and some recent
deveiopments in matrimonial and custodial disputes; and to
the use of' malice, untruth. false statements uinder oath. and
perjury. in judicial proceedings in the practice of farniiy law.
She said: Honoiîrabie senators. today I intend to draw the
attention ot the Senate te certain practices and trends in the
routine proceedings of the practice of family law in Ontario.
These practices have seemingly found favour amon- many legal
practitioners. and seemi te be so prevalent in civil litigation and iii
ludicial proeeedings that tliere is a erisis in the civil julstice
svsteni ol'Ontarie.

July 13, 1995

July 13, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

SENATE DEBATES

The civil courts are constituted for the purpose of dispute
resolution and dispute settlement, of adjudicating conflict and
providing judgment based on principles of law, fairness and
truth. The conflicts of matrimonial and child custody disputes are
especially difficult. In these conflicts, the purely legal issues are
accompanied by undischarged and negative human emotions
such as vengeance, regret, anger, self-deception and wounded
vanities.
Honourable senators, the former Attorney General of Ontario,
the Honourable Marion Boyd, and the well-respected Chief
Justice of Ontario, the Honourable Roy McMurtry, in
cooperation with the bar of Ontario, resolved to examine the
current state of civil justice in Ontario. A small task force,
co-chaired by the Honourable Mr. Justice Robert Blair and
Sandra Lang, Assistant Deputy Attorney General, conducted a
broad review of the civil justice system in Ontario which
included public hearings. Their first report, entitled "Civil Justice
Review," was released March 7, 1995.
Mr. Justice Blair reports that:
Unacceptable delays and mounting costs, with their
attendant implications for inaccessibility and mistrust of the
system, have become endemic.

2053
2053

Section 131(l) states:
...every one commits perjury who. with intent to mislead.
makes before a person who is authorized by law to permit
it to be made before him a false statement under oath or
solemn affirmation by affidavit, solemn declaration or
deposition or orally, knowing that the statement is false.
The Criminal Code makes no exception for lawyers or anyone
counselling perjury.
The report's "Focus on Family Law" chapter reveals much
about the current state of the practice of family law in Ontario.
Mr. Justice Blair Stated:
Lawyers were criticized for their drafting of lengthy,
damaging, and sometimes unsupportable affidavit material.
The Review was told frequently about... the often poisonous
nature of lengthy affidavit materials.
We were told...that perjury in these affidavits is rampant.
... it is clearly a perception...that such perjury goes
unpunished.
He further stated:

Further, Mr. Justice Blair states that the civil justice system is
"in a crisis situation." He tells us that family law was the area of
civil justice which dominated the task force's public consultation
phase. Accordingly, it devotes an entire chapter, chapter 16,
entitled "Focus on Family Law," to this concern.
The prime function of the courts is to make judgments. To do
this, a judge makes a determination of the facts. Truth is critical
to this process. Truth is so pivotal that, for centuries, the courts
have employed the technique of swearing oaths in judicial
proceedings. Courts have received evidence both in sworn
written affidavits and in sworn oral testimony in open court. The
making of statements under oath is the phenomenon of
compelling truth by binding the conscience of the person sworn
to tell the truth. The oath binds the conscience of the deponent by
a solemn appeal to the deponent's deity or faith.
Honourable senators, I am loyal to those beliefs which insist
on a solemn commitment to the act of swearing an oath,
particularly in legal and judicial proceedings. I believe this
loyalty is shared by most Canadians. The oath taken by witnesses
in court reads:
I swear that the evidence to be given by me shall be the
truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help me
God.
The swearing of an oath is so reverent and so respectful of
truth in judicial proceedings that the Parliament of Canada
prescribes a criminal sanction against falsehood in sworn
testimony. The Criminal Code of Canada, Part IV, determines

that such malfeasance is an offence against justice. Part IV is
entitled. "Offences against the administration of law and justice",
and its Sections 131 to 139 speak to the issues of falsehood.
untruth and prevarication under oath in judicial proceedings.

Concern and frustration were expressed about the number of
allegations made in affidavits that were not capable of being
substantiated in any way.
Some contents of affidavits...were reported by members of
the public to be damaging forever.
...lawyers...taking on family cases when they are not
sufficiently experienced or qualified to do so.
Mr. Justice Blair's Review findings about family law practice
are disturbing and troubling. They tell us, sometimes boldly and
sometimes in understatement, that false statements under oath,
perjury and malice are part of the routine proceedings of the
practice of family law in the Province of Ontario. These findings
tell us that the course of justice is being corrupted and perverted.
These findings have been confirmed to me by several barristers
in practice in Ontario who inform that false statements under
oath in judicial proceedings are an "epidemic."
Honourable senators, the case of Reverend B. is an example of
the use of falsehood in judicial proceedings in a child custody
dispute. It is a traumatization of two little girls and a father who
has suffered an enormous personal and financial cost. I should
explain that I am using initials to protect the children who are
still minors.
The case is as follows: Reverend B., an Anglican minister, and
Mrs. B. were married for 10 years with two girls, aged two and
four. Mrs. B. left her husband, Reverend B., taking the two
children, all the household furniture, all their joint savings and
departed with her lover, a convicted criminal. Separation and
child custody proceedings followed. Months later. when it
appeared that Reverend B. might he awarded custody of the
children. Mrs. B.. after taking legal advice, suddenly announced

tbat Reverend B. bad sexually abused tbe two girls. Sbe
sworc several affidavits to tbis effect. The Cbildren's Aid
Society worker initiated cbild protection activities. Tbis
custody-cum-cbild-protection case was tried in 1987 in Family
Court. Reverend B. won. In tbe trial judgment, Judge Dunn
awarded custody of tbe girls to Reverend B.
0

If Mrs. V. had sougbt the ... information, ... sbe would..
flot have had the basis to write as biased an affidavit as she
did. The tenor of the affidavit ... was calculated to condition
tbe reader and to lead him by choice of' wording and
structure to infer that

(1210)

Honourable senators. a tragic aspect of this case was tbe
cbildren's experience at tbe bands of tbe motber and ber lover. a
convicted cbild sex offender. The damage to tbese cbildren is
enormous. Tbe destructive aspect of tbis case is tbe fabrication of
this diabolical scbemne by persons who seem to bave legal
knowledge. and tbe enlistment of tbe justice systemn to this end. I
sball quote Judge P.W. Dunn's judgment in 1987 in tbis cbild
dispute trial. About Mrs. B.'s testimony at tbe trial, be said tbat
sbe ... did not tell the facts in an objective manner to tbe
professionals. she advocated, almost vigorously, ber position
that
-and bere tbey refer to Reverend B.-

Furtber. about the Children's Aid worker's sworn affidavit, he
said:

was a mentally sick and violent mani and was sexually
abusing bis d augbters. Mrs. V. s investigation, such as it
was. feil below a fair standard. Unfortunately Mrs. V.s
findings set in stone the society's public position during the
wbole of this matter.

Later. Rev B., on behaîf of bis daugbters. sued the Children's
Aid Society and tbe caseworker for damages. The issues in this
lawsuit were: their bias in favour of Mrs. B. and ber lawyers. tbe
suffering and anguisb caused to tbe cbildren and to Reverend B.,
and the itegligcnce and cruelty of tbe Cbildren's Aid Society.

-

.and indeed one can certainly understand the frustration
the tather must bave felt in tbis case attempting to deal witb
allegations against bim wbicb were untrue and wbicb be
regarded as utterly repugnant. and witb a bureaucracy tbat
treated bim witb ill-concealed contempt. Wbile as 1 bave
said 1 do believe tbat mucb of tbe damage sustained by the
Plaintiff

-

molesting and being brutal witb tbe girls and witb berseif
and tbat wben the case would be linisbed
-

Reverend B.
-

-

-

tbat sbe bad witnesses wbo saw...
-Reverend B.

h mentions Reverend B.

Tbe trial judge, Mr. Justice J. Somers. in ruling for
Reverend B. and against tbe Cbildren's Aid Society. stated in bis
judgment in 1994:

was a cbild molester. In November. 1985,

Mrs. B. told an individual

-

-

-

wbo is Reverend B.
-was as a result of the macbinations of bis for-mer wite, 1
feel tbat the Defendants-

would be behind bars...

About this testimony. Judge Dunn continued:
-tbe Cbildren*s Aid Society of Durhami Region and tbe case
worker-

I do not tind tbatMrs. B.'s

-

testimony measured up adequately to my ballmarks of
credibility.

-

Judge Dunn furtber added that:
Her recitations of tbe past bistory did not bave tbe 'ring of
trutb'...
In tbe 1987 proceeding regarding costs. Judge Dunn spoke of
the Cbi1dren«s Aid Society and tbe worker. saying:
In my opinion
indefensibly..

tbe

society

acted

unfairly

Cok

Referring to the testimony of Barbara Cbisbolm, an
experienced protessional in tbe field of cbild abuse, Mr. Justice
Somers said:
Ms Cbisbolm indicated tbat tbe experience bas been f'or
some time tbat sexual assault allegations made by a motber
against a fatber in custody disputes are very prevalent
nowadays and indeed bave become wbat sbe called 'tbe
weapon of cboice'.

and

He went on to say tbat Mrs. V. tbe Cbildren's Aid worker.
favoured Mrs. B. and ber counsel.

1Senator

played a strong and at times beavy banded role in tbe
matter.

-

And furnber:
Sucb is the increasing trequency of sucb allegations tbat
she descrihed this tactie as 'the weapon of the tines*.

July 13, 1995

July13,

SENATE DEBATES
995 ENAT DEBTES2055

2055

Mr. Justice Somers, in speaking of the Children's Aid worker,
said:

stand, the ground for manipulation and civil molestation is
fertile.

Ms V ..in my view displays a mean spiritedness... In my
view she demonstrated a contempt for the father which was
apparent to him. This can be contrasted with her treatment
of the mother...

Honourable senators, legal practitioners rely on absolute
judicial privilege to shield these affidavit materials. They are
misguided and mistaken. Absolute judicial privilege does not
shield against perjury and related offences as, similarly, absolute
parliamentary privilege does not shield members of Parliament
against perjury in parliamentary proceedings.

Honourable senators, in Canada today every single family is
touched by matrimonial and custody disputes. They affect the
grandparents, aunts, uncles, the siblings, the children and the full
range of familial and social relationships. The anguish and
suffering from these disputes is unspeakable. The expense is
enormous. Legal fees are extravagant. Reverend B., for example,
spent $300,000. His sister and her husband mortgaged their home
to finance his legal nightmare. This tale of human woe and
misery lasted nine years, from 1985 to 1994, and the
psychological wreckage is immeasurable.
Honourable senators, no Canadian who is traduced, who faces
falsehood and malice, who believes his cause is just, can afford
to tum to the courts for relief in a civil dispute without risking
financial ruin. We must therefore conclude that justice is
unattainable, both financially and procedurally, because of the
systemic abuses and the excesses of lawyers. This is a terrible
state of affairs.
Honourable senators, barristers take a solemn oath to maintain
the basic principles of justice. The oath reads, in part:

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senator, I am sorry,
however your time limit has been reached.
Senator Cools: I have only a few more pages, honourable
senators. May I finish?
The Hon. the Speaker: Is it agreed that the honourable
senator be allowed to finish?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Senator Cools: The singular statutory exception to all
privilege is perjury. All privilege, including solicitor-client, is
lost with perjury or counselling perjury. Her Majesty has spoken
through the Criminal Code as to how her privileges are subject to
truth. The Criminal Code of Canada ousts absolute privilege
absolutely in the commission of perjury. From the highest to the
lowest in the land, all are subject to the law. Privilege protects
truth, and abhors perjury and lawlessness.

You shall not pervert the law to favour or prejudice any one,
but in all things shall conduct yourself truly and with
integrity.

Honourable senators, the issue is truth. The issue is the
obligation owed by barristers, as officers of the court, to truth
and to justice itself. Certainly barristers know that perjury and
prevarication are questions of crime. The Oxford dictionary
defines truth as the:

This oath represents the assertion that barristers, being at the
same time officers of the court, are endowed with responsibilities
and obligations to uphold truth. However, we were told that
falsehood and prevarication in judicial proceedings is common.

Disposition to speak or act truly or without deceit; ...true
statement or account; that which is in accordance with the
fact...

Honourable senators, despite the mention of the excesses of
lawyers, the Civil Justice Review report's recommendations are
silent on remedies for correction in the legal profession. The
report advances no recommendations that speak to this problem;
a fundamental problem of professional morality. I eagerly
anticipate the review's final report, and I am expectant of its
recommendations and remedies. These recommendations should
be directed at the profession at all levels, including the Law
Society of Upper Canada and the bar association. I note that the
newly-elected treasurer of the Law Society of Upper Canada,
Susan Elliott, on June 23, 1995, stated her approach for, in her
words, "dealing with the legal profession's numerous problems".
Honourable senators, the journey of these false sworn
statements through the courts holds continuing interest. I am told
that judges are intolerant of perjury in criminal justice
proceedings, but not necessarily so in civil justice, particularly
family law proceedings. Perjury occurs on the stand at trial, and
also in the swearing of false affidavits. The Civil Justice Review
report indicates that most family law proceedings never reach
trial: never reach adjudication by a trial judge under Themis's
sword. Since the deponents of false affidavits never take the

Honourable senators, without truth the judicial process cannot
function. The swearing of false statements, knowing them to be
false with an intent to mislead justice, to obtain a resuit and
advantage in a court judgment is a crime. The issue of crime is a
federal matter and a matter for examination by this Parliament.
*(1220)

Our Constitution places Parliament as a controlling power over
the courts of law. It invests Parliament with a guardianship of the
bench, and the administration of justice. Our Constitution has
conferred upon us the superintendence over the proceedings of
the courts. Further, the Criminal Code of Canada, the Divorce
Act and the Canada Evidence Act are statutes of this Parliament.
Honourable senators, the case of Reverend B. jolts every
sensibility. It offends every principle. This case of countless
dishonesties, perjury, disceptions, illegalities, legal irregularities,
professional carelessness and bureaucratic negligence is a
diabolical creation by a wife. The Children's Aid Society and its
resources. using the Child Welfare Act. supported this wife in the
pursuit of a father. It actively supported a mother who exposed
her children to untold abuse and suffering.

Honourable senators. these facts are driven home by botb
judg-es. Botb judgments inform us that the Cbildren's Aid
Society, having realized. in the society's words. that -they had
backed the wrong horse," and baving declared that these girls
were not in need of protection. still persisted in their accusations
and in litigation, for purposes unrelated ta the protection ot the
best interests of the children, but related ta their own
institutional, corporate self-interests. Mr. Justice Somers
described the Society*s position in this regard as "utterly
unconscionable.-

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, is leave
granted?

The perceptiveness, mental prowess and integrity of these two
judges, who tinally provided some measure ai justice for these
twa littie girls and their father, was impressive. Honourable
senators. there are somte splendid judges in this country. This
current situation is an enormous strain for them. as it is for the
independence of judges and for the convention of the
independence oU the judiciary.

[TranslationI

1 urge that bonourable senators examine this disorder. this
malignancy, this patbology that bas grown in aur midst in the
legal system. 1 urge bonourable senators ta look closely at the
case of Reverend B.. wbicb is typical of many. Mr. Justice Blair"s
Review Report. tamily law proceedings. trends in tamily law.
malice and perjury as delivered in the system. and the current
crises in the civil justice system.
Tbank yau. bonourable senators. tor your attention and for
your patience. 1 would just close by saying that the report ta
which I speak is obviously a repart of enormous si/e and content.
1 urge honourable senators ta examine it.
On motion of Senator Berntson. debate adiaurned.
BUSINESS 0F THE SENATE
Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourable senators, before maving the
adjourniment motion, mindful that we will bave Royal Assent
shortly. 1 would like ta express the hope that those cammittees
whicb bave legisiation and important issues before tbem will sit
when possible and appropriate during the summer break ta bear
the witnesses wbo have asked ta be beard or wbose testimony is
necessary on concernis that have been raised by honourable
senators. either in this chamber or in committees.
1 arn sure that honourable senatars recogniLe that during
any adjourniment of the Senate, if the Speaker is satisfied. under
rule 17(1 ), that the public interest requires that the Senate meet at
an earlier time than that provided in the motion for sucb
adjoumnment. the Speaker may caîl such a meeting.
ADJOU RN MENT

Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Motion agreed to.
The Senate adjourned during pleasure.

ROYAL ASSENT
The Honourable Peter deC. Cory. Puisne Judge of the Supreme
Court of Canada. in his capacity as Deputy Govemnor General.
having corne and being seated at the foot of' the Throne. and the
House of' Commons having been summoned. and being corne
with their Deputy Speaker. the Honourable the Speaker of the
Senate said:
1 have the bonour to inform you that Ris Excellency the
Governor General has been pleased to cause Letters Patent
to be issued under his Sign Manual and Signet constituting
the Honourahie Peter deC. Cory. Puisne Judge of the
Supreme Court of' Canada, bis Deputy. ta do in His
Excellency's riarne ail acts on bis part necessary to be donc
during Ris Excellency's pleasure.
The Commission was recul bY a Cler, at t/e Table.
The Honourable the Deputy Governor General was pleascd to
give the Royal Assent to the following bis:
An Act to amend the Criminal Code (sentencing)
and other Acts in consequence thereol (Bill C-41,
Chapter No. 22, 1995)
An Act to arncnd the Canadian Dairy Commission Act
(Bill C-86, Chapter No. 23, 1995)
An Act to provide for the
National Railway Comnpany
Corporations Act and lèr the
the Company to the public
1995>

continuance of the Canadian
under the Canada Business
issuance and sale of shares of
(Bill C-89, Chapter No. 24,

An Act ta implement the Convention on the Prohibition
ot the Develapment. Production. Stockpiling and Use of
Chernical Weapons and on their Destruction (Bill C-87,
Chapter No. 25, 1995)

Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourable senatars. with leave of the Senate,
and notwitbstanding rule 58( 1 )(h), I move:

An Act to amend the Royal Canadian Mint Act
(Bill C-82, ChapterNo. 26, 1995)

That when the Senate adjourns today. it do stand
adJaurnied uintil Tuesday. Septemiber 26. 1995 at two o'clock
iii the alternoon.

An Act ta arncnd the CrinminaI Code and the You n
Oflenders Act ( larensic DNA aîialvsis) (BilI C-/04,
Ch/a/)ter No. 2. I1994)

1Scnalor Coo1'.

1

July 13, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

An Act to continue the Federal Business Development
Bank under the name Business Development Bank of
Canada (Bill C-91, Chapter No. 28. 1995>
An Act to reorganize and dissolve certain federal
agencies (Bil! C-65, ChapterNo. 29, 1995)
An Act to amend the Members of Parliament Retiring
Allowances Act and to provide for the continuation of a
certain provision (Bil! C-85, Chapter No. 30, 1995)
An Act to amend the Canadian Wheat Board Act
(Bih! C-92, Chapter No. 31, 1995)

An Act to amend the Criminal Code (self-induced
intoxication) (Bil! C-72, ChapterNo. 32, 1995)

2057

An Act to amend the Old Age Security Act, the Canada
Pension Plan. the Children's Special Allowances Act
and the Unemployment Insurance Act (Bill C-54,
Chapter No. 33, 1995)

The House of Commons withdrew.
The Honourable the Deputy of his Excellency the Governor
General was pleased to retire.
The sitting of the Senate was resumed.
The Senate adjourned until Tuesday, September 26, 1995.
at 2 p.m.

THE SENATE
Tuesday, October 3, 1995
The Senate met at 2:00 p.m., the Speaker in the Chair.
Prayers.
NEW SENATORS
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, 1 have the
honour to inform the Senate that the Clerk has received
certilicates trom the Registrar General of Canada showing that
the following persofls. respectively. have been summoned to the
Senate:
William H. Rompkey
Doris M. Anderson
Lorna Milne
Marie-P. Poulin
INTRODUCTION

The Hon. the Speaker having informed the Senate that there
were senators witbout. waiting to be introduced:
The following honourable senators were introduced; presented
Rer Majesty's writ of summons; took the oath prescribed by law,
which was administered by the Clerk; and were seated:
Hon. William H. Rompkey of Labrador, Newfoundland,
introduced between Hon. Joyce Fairbairn, P.C., and
Hon. B. Alasdair Graham.
Hon. Doris M. Anderson, of St. Peter's. Kings County. P.E.I.
introduced between Hon. Joyce Fairbairn, P.C., and
Hon. M. Lorne Bonneil.
Hon. Lorna Milne of Brampton. Ontario, introduced between
Hon. Joyce Fairbaimn. P.C.. and Hon. Keith Davey.
Hon. Marie-P. Poulin of Sudbury, Ontario. introduced
between Hon. Joyce Fairbaim., P.C.. and Hon. Leo Koîber.
The Hon. the Speaker inlormed the Senate that the
honourable senators named above had made and subscribed the
declaration of qualification required by the Constitution Act.
1867. in the presence of the Clerk of the Senate, the
Commissioner appointed to receive and witness the said
declaration.
a (1415)

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourab le scnators. 1 am proud todav Io introduce the four
l1CVwest niembers uf' our- chamiber. Il k with great pleaISLIre tbat 1

welcome a tamiliar friend and much respected parliamentary
veteran, Senator Bill Rompkey.
Colleagues may not know. but until his senatorial appointment.
Bill Rompkey was the longesi serving member of the House of'
Commons front Atlantic Canada. He has represented the people
of Labrador since bis tirst election there in 1972. Since that time.
he has served as Minister of National Revenue, Minister of State
for Small Business and Tourism. and as Minister of State for
Mines. The interests of the constituents of his province have
always been central to his political career. I know that he is
particularly proud of his accomplishments in improving
transportation facilities for the people of Labrador.
Recently. we recaîl his excellent work as the Chair of~ the
House of Commons Standing Committee on National Defence
and Veterans Affairs. Members of this bouse cooperated with
him during the deliberations of the Special Joint Committee on
Canada's Defence Policy, which he chaired.
Prior to Senator Rompkey's entrance into public life. he
completed both Bachelor and Masters degrees in English, and
post-graduate diplomas in education. He served as a school
principal and the first Superintendent of Education in Labrador
East.
1 am particularly grateful. Senator Rompkey. f'or tbe support
you have given to the issue of' literacy in your province of
Newtoundland. We have very high expectations of you. and this
house has much to gain trom your experience and your goodwill.
We know that your devotion to the people ot Labrador and
Newfoundland will continue to be reflected in your new
responsibilities.
[rom Prince Edward Island, we are joined by Senator Doris
Anderson. a noted nutritionist wbo brings with her a lifetime
contribution t0 education and mental health in her province.
Senator Anderson graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree
t'rom Acadia University and a Master of Science degree from
Cornell University. She has had an extensive career as a home
economies professor at Prince of Wales College from 1948 to
1969, and at the University of Prince Edward Island from 1969 to
1980.
Widely published in the field of nutrition. Senator Anderson
has trained generations of workers and teachers and, in particular.
bas focused on belping children with celiac disease. She was also
appointed to the Order of Canada in 1982. Clearly. honourable
senators. we can learn much trom her experience. 1 know that she
will represent her fellow islanders witb great skill and pride. and
with the compassion which bas guided her throughout her career.
Senator Lorna Mine t'ronm Brampton, Ontario. has public
service in ber blood. Rer falher was Mayor of tbe great city ot
Toronto, Mayor Dennisun. and bier busband, Ross Milne, was a
mienber ut Parliaiaent tour Pee I Du ttien ni-Simcoe t rom 197-4 tu
979.

October 3, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

Senator Milne's background is rich with community
involvement. She has served as a trustee and chair of the Peel
County Board of Education. on the Senate of the University of
Guelph, as Chairman of the Brampton and District Association
for the Mentally Retarded and as a board member for Rapport
House, a hostel for young people with drug addictions.
0 (143)

A graduate of the University of Guelph, Senator Milne
received a Bachelor of Science in Agriculture. She was also a
lecturer with the university's physics department.
Honourable senators, "volunteerism" has been central to
Senator Milne's life. She brings with her an extraordinary vitality
and commitment which will be of great benefit to the work of
this Senate.
Senator Marie-Paule Poulin offers this institution a lifetime of
experience in an area for which we are not always noted, namely,
communications.
[Translation]

She is well known for her exceptional contribution to the arts
and broadcasting in Canada, particularly for her contribution to
the expansion of French-language radio and television to the
entire country.
She has held a number of senior positions at CBC, among
them founding director of French services for Northern Ontario,
president and secretary-general of the Canadian Broadcasting
Corporation and chairman of its board of directors.
[English]

Most recently, many of us have known her as the Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer of the Canadian Artists and
Producers Professional Relations Tribunal since 1993.
Previously, she served as deputy secretary to the cabinet for
communications and consultation, a position where she worked
closely with the former Leader of the Government in the Senate,
our friend, Senator Murray, who I know valued her advice highly.
Senator Poulin is a native of Sudbury and holds a Bachelor of
Arts degree from Laurentian University and a Master of Social
Sciences from the University of Montreal. She has a strong
commitment to letter base in Northern Ontario and offers to the
Senate not only important experience in a critical sector of our
culture and economy but also boundless energy to contribute in
new directions in the work of this institution.
These new colleagues, honourable senators, bring this house
closely into balance - not quite, but close. We ail know that the
Senate is a place of vigorous debate, independent spirit and
political enthusiasm. It is also a place for reflection, compassion
and innovative initiatives. Over the years of its history, it has
witnessed, on occasion, aggressive confrontations, but more
often it functions on the basis of cooperation, courtesy and
goodwill.
Each of the senators who join us today will make a strong and
positive contribution to this place as it carries out its

2059

responsibility to the people in every part of this country of
Canada. Again, we offer our congratulations to each of you and
your families, and our good wishes on this very special day as
you take your seats in this chamber.
Hon. Senators: Hear. hear!
Hon. John Lynch-Staunton (Leader of the Opposition):
Honourable senators, it is with pleasure that I join with the
Leader of the Government to welcome our new colleagues, each
one of whom brings, as Senator Fairbairn has so well outlined,
his or her own special talents and abilities, confirming again that
the Senate of Canada has available to it a collection of
experience and knowledge, which, I always like to maintain, is
greater than that found in any elected body in Canada, whatever
the level.
The four new senators emphasize again the value of an
appointed body in even this most democratic of ail countries.
[Translation]

My congratulations to our new colleagues and my best wishes
for success as they assume their new duties. Putting our various
political allegiances aside, we share the same goal: to contribute
to ensuring that any legislation we are called upon to examine
serves the public interest as far as possible, and not the interests
of some special group.
[English]

I trust that the new senators will ignore the interpretations
circulated in some quarters - and not ail non-governmental at
that - that their appointment is in part intended to give the
government side enough votes to bring an end to the so-called
"Tory-dominated Senate."
Some Hon. Senators: Shame, shame!
Senator Lynch-Staunton: They and the Senate are not
deserving of such a narrow and partisan interpretation of the
nature of their appointments.
May I remind honourable colleagues, and particularly our four
new colleagues, that, during the Confederation debates in 1865,
one speaker saw the Upper House as:
...a tribunal for purifying the legislation of the Commons,
for weighing in the balance of experience the probable
consequences of their legislation.
In the Speaker's chambers, where our new colleagues will be
received later today, are a number of mural inscriptions, one of
which is attributed to Cicero. Properly translated, it reads:
It is the duty of the nobles to oppose the fickleness of the
multitudes.
Let me hasten to say that these are not my sentiments as such.
The two quotations are given to emphasize that ours is a
responsibility to improve and suggest improvements where found
useful. not to obstruct endlessly, and certainly not to
rubber-stamp slavishly.

[Translation]

[En glish]

No matter what. our new colleagues are assured of our support
and cooperation as they carry out their new duties.

Senator Desmarais made a lasting contribution 10 the
improvement of bealth services in Northern Ontario. His efforts
were an invaluable factor in the founding of Laurentian Hospital
and the establishment of a regional cancer treatment centre in
Sudbury. He was initially a member. then Chairman of the Board
of Laurentian University, of which his father was a founder and
first board chairman. He also served on many professional and
government advisory committees. To ail these activities, he gave
bis total devotion and tbe benefit of bis experience and wisdom.
while still finding lime 10 pursue an active career as Chief of
Radiology and Medical Director at both St. Joseph Hospital and
Laurentian Hospital. Only failing eyesigbt forced him to retire, as
he felt that he could no longer give 10 the field of' radiology the
excellence which be insisted il deserved and which he brought
10 il.

Hon. Marcel Prud'Homme: 1 understand from the press that
there is a new maýjority taking shape in the Senate. as they say
that there are now 5 1 Conservatives. 50 Liberals and three
Independent Liberals. 1 would like 10 speak only for myself as a
true Independent, however, leaving the others bo say whatever
they wish to say.
1 would like to speak at length on the appointment of the four
senators. 1 know that some people are very impatient because il
is claimed that 1 speak too often and on just about every topie. I
arn delighted to hear Senator Gigantès applaud. for he has in the
past taken considerable advantage of' the same right 1 allow
myseif todlay. 1 take no oftence, however. because we are friends.
1 could speak at some length of a gentleman who sat with me
in the House of Commons. 1 was there when he arrived., I left
him behind, and now here he is again. You will have guessed that
1 am speaking of Senator Rompkey.
As for Senator Milne. i know her indirectly through her
husband and colleague, Mr. Ross. 1 know that if is clear from the
list ot aIl of her accomplishments that this is a person who has
made a contribution to Canadian life.

[Translation]
Dr. Desmarais brought this unique experience with him when
he became a senator. wbich again confirms how fortunate the
Upper House is 10 benefit from tbe extensive knowledge of ils
members. Ris speeches here in the Senate were not miany in
number - and sometimes ver low-key -but they were always
received with the kind of' attention that reflected the immense
respect he enjoyed among his colleagues here in the Senate. in
committee or in caucus.

[En glish]
1 wish to know more. 1 must admit that I know less than
Senator Anderson. 1 want 10 ensure that mny sentiments today are
equal in welcoming her to our midst.
ITranslation]
1 have reserved my closing remarks for Senator Poulin. whom
I know a bit better. 1 would like 10 state that 1 know far more
good things about ber than have been mnentioned. 1 wish her a
most cordial welcome.
To those among the Liberals who are listening, let me say this:
This is a woman of highly independent spirit. a brilliant and
intelligent person, like the others who have come with her.
Knowing her better than the others here in the Senate do, with
the exception of perhaps two or three honourable senators. 1
would not be surprised, however, if some day the independent
spirit she bas always shown in the past makes lier aware that ini
the Senate there is truly a place for people of independent spirit.
At any rate. 1 wish her tbe most cordial, the warmest. the
triendliest of welcomes.
THE LATE HONOURABLE JEAN NOËL DESMARAIS
TRI BUTES

Hon. John Lynch-Staunton (Leader of the Opposition): It
was with great sadness that we heard in late July that our
colleague the Honourable Jean Noël Desmarais had passed away.
Alîhough he was with Lis only two years. his contributions to the
proceedin.-s in this chamber were of' the saine hi£nh calibre as
tliose lie made througwhout a lite dedicated to his tel lo\x cili/ens
iii Northern O)ntario.
[Senuaior L\,neh Siatiiiîîeiî 1

[En ,glish]
Senator Desmarais knew that his cancer was inoperable last
April. ironically on his seventy-first birthday. Despite the
shocking news. he carried on until his last breath with
extraordinar-y courage. even good humour. Many honourable
senators are familiar with the remarks he made bo the Sudbury
and District Unit ol the Canadian Cancer Society on May 10. He
said in part:
It helps me spiritually, as a Roman Catholie. 10 think that
Jesus came int the world 10 save me. He is a very smart
cookie and a very capable one. and 1 cannot believe that he
would not succeed. Therefore. I accept and believe that 1 am
leaving this world and entering tbe next in good shape and 1
thank God for ail the good bîessings that I have had.
lndeed. in life as in death, he was a good person.
[Translation]
To his wife. Colette. and 10 the entire family. 1 wish to offer
my most sincere condolences and also my thanks for allowing us
10 have in our midst a great man whose memory will endure.
[En glish]
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senatom s. we on this side wish to join with Senator
Lynceh-Stauniton 's remarks in honouri ng the ieniory of' ourcol leauie. 5e nator John Noël Desmnarai s Of Suidbu r-ý. who
passed aw~ay this suommier. three niontlhs alt1er bei ne diaeniosec]
ui th lune, cance.

October 3. 1995

Octobr 3.1995SENATE
DEBATES

He was appointed to this place in 1993 and known by ail of us
as a fine gentleman, hard-working in bis community, well
respected in bis field of radiology medicine. Given bis
background, as Senator Lynch-Staunton has said, one cannot help
but note with sadness the diagnosis of bis illness and aiso its
timing, on bis seventy-first birthday this year.

here at about the same time and it was ail very new to us. We are
both from a small city. He talked about Sudbury and 1 talked
about Saskatoon, a Ukrainian and a Frenchman.

We talked about the things we would like to do in the short
time that God gave us here. about what we would like to
accomplish. We could have used bim in the present debate on
At that time. Senator Desmarais had an X-ray which revealed healtb care. I was ]ucky enough to talk to him privately, and
inoperable cancer in bis left Iung. Only one month later, as discuss issues that concerned our country. We wiil miss bis
Senator Lynch-Staunton said. be kept an engagement to speak to knowledge and we will miss bis understanding.
the Sudbury Cancer Society's fund-raising campaign in bis
capacity as the bonorary cbairman. This took place in Sudbury
Politics needs more men like Dr. Desmarais. He was kind, he
on Volunteer Recognition Awards Night. Senator Desmarais was dignified; he was a civiiized man. To his wife. Colette. and
could easily have stayed away, but bis own circumstances made ail bis cbildren, my deepest sympathy, for 1, too, wili miss bim.
him even more determined to set an example of strengtb and
courage to others. He did so with a sense of deep bumility and
Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy
the
faith, and a toucb of bumour. 1 can only hope that the spirit to Government): Honourable senators, WinstonLeader of once
Churchili
whom he referred as "a very smart cookie" is taking good care of said, "Courage is rigbtly esteemed the finest of human qualities
him today.
because it is the quality whicb guarantees ail others."
0

(1445)

Senator Desmarais contributed more than 40 years of service
as a physician in Sudbury and in otber smaller Northemn Ontario
communities where there were no otber radiologists. He also
served as Chief of Staff at Laurentian Hospital. He was
Chairman of Laurentian University's Board of Govemnors and a
member of the Ontario government committee that studied
constitutional change in 1980-81.

Courage is the engine of conviction. Courage is tbe engine of
endurance. Courage is the stuif of life itself. Honour, nobility and
compassion spring from courage. Very few of us have the
capacity to capture its true essence. Senator Desmarais did, and
we are fortunate enough to have bis words as testimony to ail the
human qualities which courage guarantees.

It was mentioned eariier that, as cbairman of the fundraising
campaign for the Canadian Cancer Society in bis beioved
Although he was with us in the Senate for only two years, he Sudbury, he addressed the Volunteer Recognition Awards Night
was committed to participating. He worked hard as a member on just a few months betore bis death. Many honourable senators
the committees on Internai Economy, Legal and Constitutional have been privileged to read that speech.
Affairs, and Privileges, Standing Rules and Orders. Because of
bis lifetime dedication to belping individuals tbrough medicine,
You wili recali that be announced at tbat time that he bad
Senator Desmarais took a very keen interest in the study of tbe inoperable cancer. He did so quietly, with dignity and simplicity.
Special Senate Committee on Euthanasia and Assisted Suicide. "How you handie it makes ail the difference," he said. He would
Altbough be had not been assigned to that committee at the do so with endurance and a remarkabie, pragmatic sense of
outset, he participated very actively in its hearings. Sadly, be was preparedness.
unable to sec the committee's deliberations through to the end
because of bis own heaith. I know that the co-chair of that
When he said that Jesus was a smart cookie, and that he feit
committee, former Senator Joan Neiman, who admired him good about joining him in the next world, 1 guess it toucbedi ail of
tremendousiy, bad boped that be couid have contributed bis us, because reference bas been made aiready to tbat statement by
knowledge and sensitivity to the final report of tbat committee.
Senator Lynch-Staunton and by Senator Fairbairn. Most
importantly, bowever, be said it witb conviction, be said it witb
Honourable senators, this institution bas been deprived of a faith, and perhaps most important of ail, he said it with hope.
fine mind. a good heart and a loyal friend. Lt is a loss that we
sbare witb bis family and with bis friends. I want to express my
In conclusion, be tbanked
personal gratitude for tbe warmth, the courtesy and the efforts on behaif of ail thosethe volunteers for their dedicated
suffering from cancer. The
friendliness which be sbowed to me as a colleague in tbis house. selflessness of those words was a tribute to the physician very
wbo
had so recentiy become a senator.
To bis wife, Coiette, and bis cbîldren Jocelyne, Michèle, Jean,
Joanne, Guy, Suzanne and Marie, we express our deepest
When I iearned of bis death, 1 thougbt, among other things, of
sympathy. We know that your personal memories and the public
tbe biblical Timotby's beautiful words. They are as follows:
achievements of tbis sensitive and caring man will strengtben ahl
of you tbrough tbe rest of your lives.
I bave fougbt the good figbt,
Hon. David Tkachuk: Honourable senators, I used to caîl
I bave tinished my course.
Senator Desmarais "doctor." He would say, "Why do you
continue to do that?- I said. "Because you are older than me. sir."
I have kept the faitb.
1 could not caîl bim by bis first name.
I did not know him before he was appointed to the Senate. but
we hecame acquaintances and then triends. because we came

That. in different times. was the message Senator- Desmarais
brought t0 bis friends and colleagues hoth here and iii Sudbury.

Like some of you bere today. 1 attended bis funeral this past
summer. 1 believe that those of us wbo bad the privilege of being
there saw everytbing as be would have wanted it to be. We saw
incredible strength and a celebration of life. We saw a
community saddened. but proud and united. We saw a family
imbued witb love. Most important, perbaps. we understood that
Senator Desmarais m rigbt wben be said that Jesus was a
-~smart cookie."
1 have already bad the opportunity to express personally my
feelings to Colette and the beautiful members of ber family. 1 do
s0 again publicly, mindful of their loss but confident that this
brave yet gentie spirit will be witb them always.

Hon. Mabel M. DeWare: Honourable senators, it is witb
sadness that 1 risc in the Senate today to pay tribute to a dear
friend: Dr. Desmarais. Senator Desmarais. Jean. 1 wisb to extend
my best wisbes to Colette and the family wbo are bere with
us today.
After 14 montbs of working witb Jean on the Special Senate
Committee on Eutbanasia and Assisted Suicide. 1 came to respect
Dr. Desmarais' dedication to the task. 1 also came to respect a
friendsbip that developed as we walked back to the Victoria
Building night after nigbt. after our long bours of meetings. He
sbowed compassion for our committee. and revealed to me bis
personal feelings on the direction our deliberations sbould take.
retlecting, at the same time, bis own personal experiences in his
life as a doctor.
The last week. late on Tbursday. as we went back he told nie
bow tired be was. He said. -You know. when I go home this
weekend, 1 am going to bave to go sec my doctor because 1 am
sure 1 bave the f'lu. 1 sbouldn't be this tired."
After be was confined to the bouse. 1 called bim one day to sec
if 1 could talk a little business. Colette said. "He*d love to speak
to you.- During our little talk. be told me bow pleased be was
that bis maker had given bim the time to tbank ail the people wbo
bad helped him on bis way up tbrougb the years.
I sbould like to conclude witb. and echo, wbat bis six-year-old
grandson said in a note of' encouragement to bis grandfather. He
said. "Tbanik you for aIl the time we spent together." We ail thank
you. Jean, for baving spent some time with us. even tbougb it
was far too short.
Thank you. Jean.

Hon. Sharon Carstairs: Honourable senators, when Chaucer
wrote about the -gentle. perfect knigbt." 1 tbink be must bave
been referring to a character, to a man, like Jean Noël Desmarais.
because that is what he was. He was a gentle. perfect knigbt.
I first met him during the hearings in Winnipeg of the Special
Senate Committee on Euthanasia and Assisted Suicide wben he
was replacing Senator DeWare. We began Io chat about bis
familv. He recommnended that 1 takce an apartnment in Ottawa, as

1Senaier

(rhail 1

he had recently done after living for a year in a hotel. and then
with his daughter. 1 accepted bis good advice and did just that.
His contribution to the commitice studying euthanasia and
assisted suicide, as mentioned by Senator DeWare, was very
positive. As a physician, he was able to provide us with the
knowledge of medicine which the rest of us, with the exception
of Dr. Keon, simply did not have.
He did not have very much to say because he tended to be a
listener. When he did say something. it was after a great deal of
thougbt and consideration.
He sat on this side of the chamber for the tirst few months that
1 was sitting here, and then he moved across the way. It was not
because he cbanged parties, but because the seating arrangement
changed in that fashion. 1 missed our daily greetings and the
chatter that one tends to have with a colleague who sits nearby,
so every now and then 1 would sneak around to the other side to
say hello to him.
1 wiIl miss him here in the Senate. 1 think we could ail strive to
be a little better. to bc '-gentle, perfect knigbts" like Senator
Desmarais.
[Translation]

Hon. Marie-P. Poulin: Honourable senators. it is with
considerable emotion that I rise today, the first day of' my
mandate in the Senate. to mark the passing of' Senator Jean Noël
Desmarais. Senator Desmarais passed away on July 26 following
a hrief illness.
He was born in Sudbury in 1924 and studied medicine at the
University of' Ottawa, specialiLing in radiology in the United
States and England. He practiced miedicine until 1991. He was a
pioneer committed to the health sector in Northern OJntario,
specilically.
Those who had the good fortune to know him are well aware
of bis ever-increasing achievements over the years. His
outstanding quality was his protound concern for others'
well-being. He frequently reminded us in both words and deeds
that well-being was dependent on good health. In real terms. this
belief was expressed through a strong and daily commitment to
promoting the availability of bealth care and the quality of
bospital services in the Sudbury area.
1 bad the pleasure of working with hiru bctwccn 1978 and
1983 on the board of' directors of the Laurentian Hospital
in Sudbury.
Dr. Desmarais was known for the relevance of bis remarks. He
said fiie. but be spoke well and always at the appropriate
moment. This fine quality earned bim a reputation for wisdom
and made bim bigbly respected.
In addition to bis exemplary contribution as a doctor and a
director. bc was known for- bis longstanding involvement in
miany community organizations.

October 3, 1995

October 3, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

2063

2063

SENATE DEBATES

[English]
* (H5i)}

For one, Dr. Desmarais was actively involved in furthering the
objectives of Laurentian University as Chairman of its Board of
Governors between 1973 and 1978. In 1990, the university
recognized his many achievements with an honorary Doctorate
of Science.
If it is true that you really get to know someone when you
work with them, then I can say, too, that 1 knew hlm welI.
Indeed, we sat on several boards together; we shared ideas and
beliefs; we made things happen in our community.
On a more personal note, he was a neighbour and a friend to
my family. the Charettes of Sudbury, for many years. Above ail,
he was an exemplary family man, a caring father of seven, a
loving husband and a beloved brother.
However, for me, one detail stands out among many. Less than
two weeks before Senator Desmerais passed away, I received a
very kind note from him, perhaps one of his Iast. In that note, hie
congratulated me for also obtaining an honorary doctorate from
Laurentian University. These are written words that I wilI always
cherish in a very special way.
As 1 and countless others remember him for the gentleman
and, yes, the gentie man, that hie was, I arn sure ail honourable
senators would want me to extend our renewed sympathy to the
Desmerais family members, some of whom are present here
today. I teel privileged to have known him, and truly honoured
that I can pay this tribute to his memory as the representative of
Northern Ontario in the Senate of Canada.
Hon. Senators: Hear, hear!
[Translation]

Hon. Marcel Prud'homme: Honourable senators, last
summer I attended the funeral of our colleague and friend,
Senator Desmarais. 1 did so as a friend and out of respect for
the Senate.
I realized I had rnuch in commun with the Desmarais family. 1
went to university with Robert Desmarais, who became a judge
of the Ontario Supreme Court. I sat in the House of Commons
with Louis Desmarais, his brother, who was a member of
Parliament for Dollard in Montreal, next door to my riding.
I had the honour of being appointed a member of the Pnivy
Council by Her Majesty Elizabeth Il on the occasion of the
125th anniversary of Canada, this country we must save,
preserve and modernize.
Suddenly, I amn in the Senate with Jean Noël. It is too bad we
are so often afraid of expressing our emotions in public and
speaking with compassion about these matters that bring us
together from time to time.
1 want to thank Colette Michaud-Desmarais who did me the
great honour of writing mie a letter, to say what Senator
Desmarais mnay have wanted Io say when hie was nu longer able
to do so.

His children. Jocelyne, Michèle, Jean, Joanne. Guy, Suzanne
and Marie, had an extraordinary father. His goodness was feit by
everyone around him. His patience. candour. goodness and
humanity made a lasting impression on those who knew him.
I know that in heaven, where a man as good as hie was -and
1 realize this sounds odd but I have no hesitation. I am not
ashamed. He was a good man; hie was a practising Catholic; hie
was a believer. 1 had the privilege of conversing with him
because I was always more enthusiastic than hie was, and he often
said to me: "Marcel, you seern a bit agitated."' 1 see rny good
friend Senator Bacon nodding agreement. Then he would say:
"Comne along, we will go for a walk. You will get me going, and
I will get you to calm down."'
What a good man! I know that up there where hie belongs, hie
is delighted to see that Senator Marie-Paule Poulin is now in
the Senate.
[En glish]

THE LATE HONOURABLE
DAVID JAMES WALKER, P.C.
TRIBUTES

Hon. LoweII Murray: Honourable senators, it is with sadness,
but much pride in his service to public life, that I record the death
on Friday, September 22, of our former colleague the Honourable
David James Walker.
David Walker had already distinguished himself in the practice
of law when hie entered Parliament in 1957 as the member of the
House of Commons for Rosedale. He was immediately appointed
Parliamentary Assistant to, the Minister of Justice, and two years
later joined Prime Minister Diefenbaker's cabinet as Minister of
Public Works with added responsibility for Central Mortgage and
Housing Corporation and for the National Capital Commission.
His three years in those portfolios were marked by a
significant expansion of the federal govemment's activity as a
builder, developer, lender and landowner. The Trans-Canada
Highway, which had been lagging because of a variety of
financial and interprovincial obstacles, was pushed through to
completion. Thirty thousand acres of land were acquired for the
Ottawa greenbelt. An agreement was reached with Ontario and
Quebec to build the Macdonald-Cartier Bridge. Federal
assistance under the National Housing Act was extended to
municipalities for sewage disposal plants. The National Library
and Public Archives on Wellington Street were begun, and the
reconstruction of the West Block on Parliament Hill was
undertaken.
As a minister, David Walker was no chairman of the board. He
involved himself directly in the decisions and in their
implementations. In Canada's present straitened financial
circumstances, it is unlikely that, in the near future, today's
parliamentarians will see a surge of public investment on similar
projects to match that of the late 1950s and early 1960s.
David Walker lost his seat in the House of Commons in the
1962 general election and, within a few months. was appointed to
the Senate by Prime Minister Diefenbaker. Here hie began an
active career that ended only with hîs rehirement more than
26 years later on September 30. 1989.

He will be remembered by colleagues bere as an exceptionally
able debater and also as a gitted and serious participant in the
legislative process. He brought a wealtb of experience te
discussions of public policy, notably on legal questions but also
on business and economic issues.

last word. That is an experience that 1 have always enijoyed. and
have always sought after.-

David Walker began bis political service at the age of 14 as a
Page in the Ontario Legislature. As a I 9-year old at the
University of Toronto, be debatcd Mackenîzic King, knew most
of our provincial and federal leaders over the years and attended
aIl the Conservative Party conventions from 1927 te the 1990s.
He was President of the Albany Club of Toronto in 1949.

When I tirst sat down to write this account ofrmy life ...I1had
one ambition stili unrealized: to celebrate with Bunty-

The Conservative Party especially. but also Parliament. bas
reason te ackncwledge witb gratitude bis 32 years of service bere
and bis even longer service te bis profession. te bis party and te
Canada.

Hon. Richard J. Stanbury: Henourable senators. I should
like te join Senator Murray in paying tribute te the former
Senator David James Walker who passed away on September 22
at the age cf 90 years.
I bave known Senator Walker since about 1949, and always
had a deep respect l'or bim. Fervently partisan and fiercely
patriotie. Senator Walker had a long record cf public service in
this country. Born in Toronto. he attended University College au
the University of Toronto. and graduaued t'rom Osgoode Hall
Law School in 1931.
Law was ceruainly the seed cf bis interest in peliticat life. and
l'er many years he worked as a Crown presecuter and as a civil
lawyer befere being elected as the member cf Parliament l'er
Rosedale in 1957.
I recaîl that on one of my earliest court appearances. I felt
called upon te apelogize te the court because cf some oversigbt.
Dave Walker was in the locker room wben 1 went te ungown
after we bad botb teft the court. He looked at me stemnly and said.
"~My boy, neyer admit you're wrong. I neyer do.-' I am net sure 1
was ever able te accept that advice. but David certainly betieved
it te be an important principle.
His tenure in the House of Commons was bigblighted by bis
assistance in drafting then Prime Minister Dietenbaker's Bill cf
Rigbts and by bis work as Minister et Public Works frcm 1959
until 1962. which Senator Murray bas delineated. He was a
passienate loyatisu cf John Diefenbaker.
Appointed te the Senate in 1963 in the dying days of'
Mr. Diefenbaker's regime. David Walker was actively invotved
in the proceedings ef' this place until bis retirement in 1989. He
worked on several committees, in particular. Banking. Trade and
Commerce. Legal and Constitutional Affairs. National Finance.
and Standing Rules and Orders. His interventions in the Senate
were frequent and on a diverse selectien cf issues.
There was certainhv ne mistakin- the spirit and drive xvith
semetimes a tittle bit tee muLch se l'or
whicb be tackted bis job
these of uis wbe wenut Lp against bimi iii many, spirîted. peltical
battles ever tile \ cais. 1 nlexer kness anvene se adept at miaking a
sarcasti e imark that couhd desti Ov another'.s logic. tndeed. a[ bis
retiremnent be said. "~As a lawycvi.. t vwas atwavs -,had te hav e tlic

In his private life. however. he had a great love and
commitment to his family. In bis book. Fun, Along thle WaY. he
writes:

-that

is his wife. Elizabeth

-

-our fiftieth wedding anniversary.
Not only did be go on to celebrate that anniversary, but on
September 2 of this year, he and Elizabeth had been married for
62 years. To Elizabeth. to his children. David, Margaret and
Diane. and to bis many other family members and friends. we
extend our condolences.
* 0515)

[Translation]

THE LATE RIGHT HONOURABLE
JEAN-LUC PEPIN, P.C.
TRIBUTES

Hon. Jean-Robert Gauthier: Honourable senators, on
September 5. this country suffered a great loss. that of' the
Honourable Jean-Luc Pepin. In recalling this great Canadian, I
think of a friend whose ever-present smile and good humour
spoke of bis joie de vivre. He was a passionate intellectual and a
philosopher, a man of great culture who communicated bis ideas
with eloquence. A man of singular modesty. he knew how to
listen to others. wbose ideas be respected.
I am saddened at the loss of' this sincere friend who, tike
myseif, believed in a united Canada where the two language
communities could live side by side anywbere in the country. 1
consider it an honour and a privilege to have shared
conversations with him regularly on subjects of mutual interest.
An honiest politician. an inveterate worker. a man ot
conviction. Jean-Luc Pepin lett bis mark wherever he went. He
neyer failed to meet the challenges sent bis way.
He was a professor at the University of Ottawa for many years.
He was a member of Parliament from 1963 to 1968 and from
1979 te 1984. He served as Minister of Mines and Resources.
Minister of' Transport and Minister for External Relations.
He held almost ail the portfolios. He would have been a good
prime minister.
He did not shy away from co-chairing the Pepin-Robarts
Commission on Canadian unity or the Anti-Inflation Board. He
always gave bis best. This is why hundreds of people gathered ai
the Notre-Dame basilica on September 12 to accompany this
great man on bis final voyage and te pay bimi tribute l'or bis
immense contribution te Canadian lit'e.
Most hoineurable Jean-Lue Pepini. 'very dear Iriend. thank yoLu
elopinent and tharnk
toi- veur centribution te our Coiii,,d\
N foe- tbe pehîtical inheritance Nou liaye teit Lis. YOLI \vll remain
ou
VeS.
lleart«, Ws
asVOu] were a part Of eurI hi
ilnl rLI

October 3, 1995

October3.DEBATES
1995SENATE

2065
26

To his wife, Mary, his daughter, Aude, his son, Nicolas, and to
their family. 1 otier my most sincere condolences. May you be as
proud to have shared his life as 1 was to know him.

Hon. Marcel Prud'homme: Honourable senators. with your
leave. 1 would like to say a few words about Jean-Lue who was
my professor. but 1 reserve the right to do so later this week.

Hon. Gérald-A. Beaudoin: Honourable senators, 1 rise today
to pay tribute to a great friend and statesman, Jean-Luc Pepin. He
lived at a crucial time in our constitutional history and was one
of its major players.

[En glish]

Jean-Lue was a colleague of mine at the University of Ottawa.
As a political scientjst first and foremost, a much sought-after
professor, an academie in heart and soul with a lively mind, a
very popular commentator on radio and television, and a member
of Parliament, minister and a high-ranking govemrment officiai,
Jean-Luc Pepin dedicated his life to politics.
And what a life! He understood his time.
1 first met him when he started out as a minister in the House
of Commons. 1 was assistant parliamentary counsel at the time.
Our offices were next door to cach other. A junior public servant,
Paul Tellier, who was to play a major role in the Public Service,
was Jean-Luc Pepin's assistant at the time.
People wiIl remember the contribution that Jean-Luc Pepin
made to Canadian polities as a very competent, weIl-rounded and
imaginative minister. I have seldom met a man who was such a
hard worker, so absorbed by his work and so well-informed.
I had the good fortune to work with him on the Pepin-Robarts
Task Force with John Robarts, Solange Chaput-Rolland, Ronald
Watts and a number of other people. He also came up with the
idea of a committee of wise men consisting of Léon Dion, John
Meisel and Edward McWhinney. We will neyer forget this
expenience.
John Robarts made an extremely useful contribution.
We had many researchers of very high calibre. We were one
big family. We travelled the length and breadth of Canada. This
field-work made a lasting impression on us.
The commission was an important moment in our lives. It had
a role to play at a very difficuit time. How could we ever forget
the spirit that guided the report entitled: "Future Together"' and
the lexicon of the words of the debate "Coming to Terms," which
was so useful and is still being consulted, in law schools and
political science departmnents.
Because of his personality and his genius, Jean-Lue Pepin
always had many friends and admirers in polities, in the course
of his academie career and in the media. He will remain in our
memory as a born professor, dedicated commentator and
statesman.
To his wife, Mary. his children Nicolas and Aude, his brothers
and sisters and the entire Pepin family. 1 wish to offer my most
sincere condolences. Goodbye. Jean-Lue. our intrepid colleague.

BUSINESS 0F THE SENATE
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators. before I proceed
with Senators' Statements, 1 wish to add my words of welcome
to the four new senators we received today. I also welcome ail of
you back to what 1 trust will be a fruitful and pleasant session
this fail. I take particular note of one of our colleagues who has
retumned after being absent for a long time. Honourable Senator
Wood has been ili. but is back in the Senate today.
I should also like to take a moment to welcome back the pages
who are returning and to introduce to you the new Pages.
Christine Lenouvel was appointcd Chief Page on June 30, 1995.
She is in her third year at the University of Ottawa. She comes to
us from Toronto and will be with us again throughout this
session.
Also from the previous session. we have O'Neal Banerjee. He
is starting his second year with us. He is in his fourth year at the
University of Ottawa and is from Brossard, Quebec.
[Translation]

Honourable senators, Kelsey MacTavish is in her second year
as a Senate Page. She is in third year at Carleton University, and
comes from Lachute. Quebec.
[English]

Now we come to the new Pages. Andrew Barnsley studied at
Mount Allison University in New Brunswick. He is now in his
third year at Carleton University. He comes from Fredericton,
New Brunswick.
Erin Clow cannot come down to, the floor because she is
responsible for the microphone console up above. She is from
Charlottetown, Prince Edward Island, and she is in her second
year at the University of Ottawa.
[Translation]

Honourable senators. Gregory Doiron is in his first year ai the
University of Ottawa. He comes from Gondola Point, New
Brunswick.
[English]

We have one Page who unfortunately is absent today. Leigh
Lampert is from Moncton, New Brunswick. Hc is in his first year
at the University of Ottawa.
[Translation]

Honourable senators. Natacha Leclerc is in third year ai the
University of Ottawa. She is trom Chicoutimi. Quebec.

Mr. Justice La Forest in wniting the minonity decision put il
succinctly:

[English]
Honourable senators wili note this year that the competition
for new Pages was in Eastern Canada.
Honourable senators, 1 have one final note of business, if 1
may: We are having some difficulties today with the recording
equipment. They are trying 10 solve the problem now. but we
may not have Debates of the Senate at the usual time tomorrew.
I simply advise you of the situation in case you are looking f'or
your Hansard and cannot find il.
1 also wish to remind you that at five o'clock this afternoon.
there will be a reception in my quarters f'or the new senators, and
obviously aIl senators are invited.

SENATOR'S STATEMENT
HEALTH
TOI3ACCO PRODUCTS CONTROL ACT-DECISION
0F SUPREME COURT 0F CANADA

Hon. Mira Spivak: Honourable senators. the Supreme Court's
recent decision to strike down the Tobacco Products Control Act
placed the value of private advertising to selI deadly products
above that of public regulation to preserve people's health.
Whether judicial solicitude for corporate arguments about
commercial speech are well placed. whether full constitutional
status is properly conferred upon corporations - and the place of
freedomn of' commercial speech in the hierarchy of political
values is a subject deserving of' debate -I wish at this time to
place on the record several of the excellent observations found in
the minority judgment of the court which received too little
attention in the press and elsewhere in recent weeks.
At issue in the courU's decision were two essential questions:
Did Parliament have the constitutional authority to enact the
legislation, and, if it did, did the government demonstrate that the
law did not unjustitiably violate the freedom of expression right
set out by the Charter?

It must be kept in mind that the infringed right at issue in
these cases is the right of tobacco corporations 10 advertise
the only legal product sold in Canada which. when used
precisely as directed. harms and otten kilts those who use it.
If tobacco were a product under the Hazardous Products Act,
as ail the anti-tobacco groups have been advocating l'or some
time. advertising could be prohibited. The Food and Drug Act,
for example, prevents the advertising of nicotine patches. a
method by which some people stop smoking.
Justice La Forest also wrote:
Nearly 7 million Canadians use tobacco products. which are
highly addictive. Undoubtedly. a prohibition of this
nature speaking of a total ban-would lead 10 an increase in illegal activity, smuggling
and. quite possibly, civil disobedience. Weil aware of those
difficulties, Parliament chose a less drastic. and more
incremental. response to the tobacco health problem. In
prohibiting the advertising and promotion of tobacco
products, as opposed to their manufacture and sale.
Parliament has sought to achieve a compromise among the
competing interests of smokers. non-smokers and
manutacturers. with an eye 10 protecting vuinerable groups
in society. Given that advertising, by its \(,ry nature. is
intended to influence consumers and create demand. this
was a reasonable policy decision.
The question before the court. however, was not simply
whether it was reasonable but whether it was demonstrably
justified and minirnally impaired freedom of expression. The
majority of the court found that the Tobacco Products Control
Act violates the companies' Charter right to freedom of
expression. largely hecause the government failed to demonstrate
that a total ban was necessary to counter the limited objective of
curbing consumrption through advertising. labelling or promotion.

On the first point, a majority of the Supreme Court judges did
not rule against Parliament. We have retained the constitutional
authority to legisiate tobacco advertising and other measures. a
ruling which enables the government to quickly enact new
legislation.

Madam Justice McLachlin wroîe that the "motivation to profit
is irrelevant," comparing the activity of tobacco companies to
book sellers, newspaper owners and toy sellers.

The reasons for the government to do this. while previously
well documented, were reinforced by the Health Canada study
published last month in the Canadian Journal of Public Healthl,
detailing new smoking-related mortality statisties. As of' 1991,
there were 41.408 deaths. with women's deaths accounting for
89 per cent of' the increase. Smoking is stili the single largest
cause of preventable death in Canada.

The Hon. the Speaker: Senator Spivak. I hesitate to interrupt
you. but your three minutes are up. unless there is agreement.

The kecy to the tobacco cenîpanies' pleadings before the court
was that tebacce is a legal prodUct and thus has the right te be
advertised.

[The Hon. ihie Speakei 1

Again, Justice La Forest wrote

-

Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Senator Spivak: Thank you.
The Charter was
not corporations.
protect the righits
olth in dix idual.

essentially enacted to protect individuals.
Il may. at limes. il is truc. be necessary to
ot Corporations se as to protect the rights
But 1 do net think this i s such a case.

SENATE DEBATES

October 3, 1995

Because:

2067

the House on Monday, June 19, 1995, and recommends the
following:

... the harm engendered by tobacco, and the profit motive
underlying its promotion, place this form of expression as
That the report deadline be extended from Tuesday,
far from the 'core' of freedom of expression values as
October 31, 1995 to Friday, March 29, 1996.
prostitution, hate mongering, or pornography and thus
Respectfully submitted,
entitled it to a very low degree of protection under Section 1
of the Charter. It must be kept in mind that tobacco
DONALD H. OLIVER
advertising serves no political, scientific or artistic ends; nor
Joint Chair
does it promote participation in the political process. Rather,
its sole purpose is to inform consumers about, and promote
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, when shall this
the use of, a product that is harmful, and often fatal, to the
consumers who use it. The main, if not sole, motivation for report be taken into consideration?
this advertising is, of course, profit.
On motion of Senator Oliver, report placed on Orders of the
Day for consideration at the next sitting of the Senate.
The govemment must now provide the remedy. It could use
the Charter's "notwithstanding" clause to override the decision.
AGRICULTURE AND FORESTRY
It should use the Hazardous Products Act or the Food and Drug
Act to impose more stringent controls on the tobacco industry. In
AGRICULTURAL TRADE-CONFIRMATION OF TABLING OF REPORT
addition to any of those measures, it must better enforce the
federal law which forbids sales to minors. It must affirm respect
Hon. Dan Hays:
I should like
for the law among retailers and give the right signal to young to the Senate that on Honourable senators, 1995, pursuant to report
Wednesday, July 26,
to leave
people.
granted by the Senate, the Standing Senate Committee on
Agriculture and Forestry
eleventh report
The government must act to restore the faith of Canadians in "Agricultural Trade-A tabled itsof the Standing entitled,
Report
Senate
the Charter as an instrument for their protection. The government Committee on Agriculture and Forestry's Fact-Finding Mission
of Canada has been hesitant, weak-kneed and, I may say, to Washington and Winnipeg." The copies of that report were
downright negligent in its approach to this issue. In this distributed to honourable senators immediately after that date.
judgment, the court both laid to rest judicial deferment to
Parliament and invited the government to act, and it should act.
BANKING, TRADE AND COMMERCE.

ROUTINE PROCEEDINGS
PRIVACY COMMISSIONER
ANNUAL REPORT TABLED

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, I have the
honour to table the annual report of the Privacy Commissioner
for the period ended March 31, 1995.
CODE OF CONDUCT
REPORT OF SPECIAL JOINT COMMITTEE PRESENTED

Hon. Donald H. Oliver, Joint Chairman of the Special Joint
Committee on the Code of Conduct, presented the following
report:
Tuesday, October 3, 1995
The Special Joint Committee on a Code of Conduct has
the honour to present its
FIRST REPORT
Your Committee has examined its Order of Reference
adopted by the Senate on Wednesday, June 28, 1995 and by

1992 FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS LEGISLATIONCONFIRMATION OF TABLING OF INTERIM REPORT
AND MOTION FOR CONSIDERATION

Hon. Michael Kirby: Honourable senators, I wish to inform
the Senate that, pursuant to the order adopted by the Senate on
June 28, 1995, I tabled the twenty-first report of the Standing
Senate Committee on Banking, Trade and Commerce entitled,
"Interim Report on the 1992 Financial Institutions Legislation"
with the Clerk of the Senate on August 3, 1995.
I move that the report be placed on the Orders of the Day for
consideration at the next sitting of the Senate.
Motion agreed to.
FOREIGN AFFAIRS
FREE TRADE IN THE AMERICAS-CONFIRMATION
OF TABLING OF REPORT

Hon. John B. Stewart: Honourable senators, I have the
honour to inform the Senate that the Standing Senate Committee
on Foreign Affairs tabled its eighth report with the Clerk of the
Senate on Thursday, August 3. 1995, as authorized by the Senate
on June 27, 1995.
The interim report, entitled, "Free Trade in the Americas."
deals with hemispheric trade relations in the context of the
Canada-United States Free Trade Agreement and the North
American Free Trade Agreement.

ADJOURNMENT[Tnlai]

[Translation]

Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourable senators. with leave of the Senate.
and notwithstanding rule 58(lI)(h). 1 move:
That when the Senate adjourns today. it do stand
adjourned until Wednesday. October 4. 1995 at one-thirty
o'clock in the aftemnoon.

THE INTER-PARLIAMENTARY UNION
SPECIAL SESSION 0OF INTER-PARLIAMENTARY COUNCIL ON
FIFTIETH ANNIVERSARY 0F CREATION 0F UNITED
NATIONS-NOTICE 0F INOUIRY

Hon. Senators: Agreed.

Hon. Peter Bosa: Honourable senators. 1 give notice that on
Tuesday. October 24. 1995, 1 will cati the attention of the Senate
to the special session of the Inter-Parliamentary Council on the
occasion of' the 50th anniversary of the founding of the United
Nations, which was held in New York on August 31 and
September 1, 1995.

Motion agreed to.

[English]

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, is leave
granted?

CORRECTIONS AND CONDITIONAL RELEASE ACT
CRIMINAL CODE
CRIMINAL RECORDS ACT
PRISONS AND REFORMATORIES ACT
TRANSFER 0F OFFENDERS ACT
BILL TO AMEND

FIRST READING

The Hon. the Speaker informed the Senate that a message
had been received lrom the House of' Commons with Bill C-45.
to amend the Corrections and Conditional Release Act, the
Criminal Code. the Criminal Records Act, the Prisons and
Reformatories Act and the Transfer of' Offenders Act.
Bill read first time.
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, when shahl this
bill be read the second time?
On motion of Senator Graham, bill placed on the Orders of the
Day for second reading on Thursday. October 5, 1995.

INTER-PARLIAMENTARY UNION
SPECIAL SESSION 0F INTER-PARLIAMENTARY COUNCIL ON
FIFTIETH ANNIVERSARY 0F CREATION 0F UNITED
NATIONS-REPORT 0F CANADIAN GROUP TABLED

Hon. Peter Bosa: Honourable senators. 1 have the honour to
table the report of the Canadian Croup of the Inter- Parliame ntary
Union to the Special Session of the Inter-Parliamentary Council
on the occasion of the fiftieth anniversary of the creation of the
Ujnited Nations, held in New York, New York, from August 30 to
September 2h. 1995.
CANADIAN NATO PARLIAMENTARY ASSOCIATION
REPORT 0F ANNUAI- COMMITTEF MEETING IN NORTH AMERIISA

Hon. Bill Rompkey: Honourable senators. I have the honour
to table the eighth report oh' Ihe Canadian NATO Parliarnentary
Association \Xhich deal s wvith the North Atlantic AssemiNi
Annual Conîmiiitice Meetint_ i n North Anerica. held iii ( )tîak\ a
and Washin(iton fromn June 11 to 16. 1995.

QUESTION PERIOD
NATIONAL DEFENCE
DISI3ANDMENT 0F CANADIAN AIRBORNE

REGIMENT DIFFERENCE 0F OPINION BETWEEN MINISTER
AND CHIIEF 01: DEFENCE STAFF GOVERNMENT POSITION
Hon. Gerry St. Germain: Honourable senators, 1 should like
to take this opportunity to welconie the new senators. despite the
fact that some oh them may have heft the chamber.
To Senator Rornpkey. who cornes front the other place. 1 was
neyer really at case in this place until your arrivaI here today. 1
uscd 10 feel that there might be a tinge of patronage in my
appointment. Howevcr. your appointment here dispels that
thought completely. 1 welcorne you, and 1 look forward t0
working with you. It is nice to see you here.
Honourable senators. my question is to the Leader oh' the
Govemment in the Senate and it relates to the shamneful decision
to disband the Canadian Airbome Regiment against the wishes ot
the Chief of Detence Staff because of the misbehaviour of a fcw.
Is there truly a difference of opinion as between the Minister
of National Defence and the Chief of Defence Staff regarding
matters of disbandment. promotions and the general management
of the military?

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators. as Honourable Senator St. Germain would
know, the decision to disband the regiment was made some time
ago. That decision took into account aIl the circumstances about
which we have heard a great deal. and resuhted in the public
inquiry which began its hearings this week. That decision has
been accepted by both parties.
Senator St. Germain: Honourable senators. in spite of her
Iack of military experience - and not many oh' us here have had
that privihege -the Leader oh the Governrnent iii the Seiiate
miusi realize that the undermininL, of' the morale of our arrned
ihie horrendouis il t he mnini ster and the Ch ici ofI
torces wil
Del'ence Stafl* square oit on opposite sides ol'an issue such as the
di sbandi ns oi't he i egnie nI. t he promotion aspect. and any nIlie r
fr
aspects ol ni an agi ng oui Ioice s.

SENATE DEBATES

October 3, 1995

If the Leader of the Govemment in the Senate is not prepared
to pass on my first question, then I ask her to pass on my request
to replace that minister, or at least make changes in order to save
the morale of one of the greatest fighting forces that this world
has ever seen - our Canadian Armed Forces.
Honourable senators, it is unacceptable that members of the
armed forces, past and present, should be forced to deal with
these differences of opinion which will completely undermine
the morale of this great military organization. You need not take
my word for it. On a recent television program, I heard a report
that the Americans have stated that the work done by the
Canadian troops in Somalia was, overall, above reproach and to
be commended.
Will the Leader of the Govemment request the Prime Minister
to do something about the situation, to either replace or fire the
minister or to make some other effort to help our armed forces?
Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators, frankly, I will not
have that conversation with the Prime Minister. The Minister of
National Defence has carried out his responsibilities, and the
Chief of Defence Staff has carried out his responsibilities.
Nevertheless, I agree with Senator St. Germain that the morale of
the armed forces is of great concern to this government and to
armed forces members.
Although I have not had the privilege of serving in the armed
forces, I do have the privilege of serving as Honorary
Lieutenant-Colonel of the 18th Air Defence Regiment, and I take
those responsibilities very seriously. Every effort is being made,
and will continue to be made, to deal with the difficulties that
have arisen surrounding recent incidents.
There is a great desire on the part of all Canadians to support
our forces, which are, as Senator St. Germain has said, the finest
fighting forces anywhere in the world. Our forces have done this
country enormously proud in the work that they have undertaken
under very difficult circumstances in the former Yugoslavia.
I appreciate the concerns of my honourable colleague. I
certainly will communicate those concerns. In concert with all
members of this chamber, I will do everything in my power to
improve and consolidate the morale of our fine fighting forces
and all elements of the armed forces of Canada.
DEFENCE
SAFETY OF SEA KING HELICOPTERS-GOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. Terry Stratton: Honourable senators, I too welcome the
new senators to this place. I like Sir John A. Macdonald's
definition of the Senate:
It is a saucer into which you pour legislation to cool.
Honourable senators, I am disturbed to learn that another
Sea King helicopter was in trouble recently. Two weeks ago, one
of our aging Sea Kings was forced to make an emergency
landing as a result of a warning light coming on, indicating
transmission problems. The incident happened in Quebec.
In response to a question in the House of Commons. the
Minister of National Defence said that the incident was very

2069

unfortunate. He also said that the Sea Kings are totally safe to fly.
How can the minister state that the Sea Kings are perfectly safe
to fly in light of these repeated reports of failures?
Senator Berntson: They keeping falling out of the sky, but are
perfectly safe to fly.
0

(1545)

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government): As the
honourable senator will know, the white paper on defence, in
which our new colleague Senator Rompkey was very much
involved, clearly confirmed the government's intention to
purchase replacements for the Sea King helicopters. The
government is considering all options. At this point in time, no
contract has been approved.
My honourable friend will know that persons expert in the
field have indicated that with the kind of maintenance we expect,
the Sea Kings will be safe to operate, I believe, until the end of

this century. From time to time, there have been tragic incidents.
However, the information accepted by the govemment is that we
are pressing on. The choice has not yet been made, and the Sea
Kings will be maintained at the highest level until it is.

Senator Stratton: Honourable senators, when is this likely to
occur? How many more crashes and failures must we have
before the government will take action?
Senator Fairbairn: As I indicated, honourable senators, the
government is considering a number of options. As to the precise
timing, I am afraid I cannot indicate that to my honourable friend
today.
HUMAN RIGHTS
RATIFICATION OF HUMAN RIGHTS CONVENTION OF
ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES-GOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. Noël A. Kinsella: Honourable senators, my question is
for the Leader of the Government in the Senate.
Madam Minister, I was pleased to read in the Montreal Gazette
this morning a story to the effect that your colleague the Minister
of Immigration used his authority to grant landed status to the
Langner family. Stanislaw and Ewa Langner were born in
Poland: their children were bom in Canada. The minister, I think,
made the correct decision. I would ask that you convey to him
my pleasure upon learning of this decision.
What is interesting about the story is that the Langners' case
rose to prominence after the Inter-American Commission on
Human Rights - which is the commission of human rights of
the OAS - became interested in it.
Canada has neither signed nor ratified the Inter-American
Convention on Human Rights. My recollection from the Red
Book is that the government was prepared to honour this human
rights convention: in other words, Canada would sign and ratify
the Human Rights Convention of the OAS. Could the minister
inform this chamber as to the progress in ratifying that human
rights instrument on behalf of Canada?

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, first, I will seek to inform myself. I would
then be pleased to communicate with my honourable friend in
the chamber.

DELAYED ANSWERS TO ORAL QUESTIONS
Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourable senators, I have several delayed
answers to oral questions, some of which were sent to
honourable senators by mail over the summer months. They were
sent to those senators who were directly concerned.
However, in accordance with the rules. I wish to table the
following delayed answers: A response to a question raised in the
Senate December 15. 1994. by the Honourable Senator Carney
regarding the Automatic Navigational Weather System; a
response to a question raised in the Senate March 21, 1995, by
the Honourahle Senator Forrestall regarding the replacement of
Sea King and Labrador helicopters: a response to a question
raised in the Senate May 9, 1995, by the Honourable Senator
St. Germain regarding relations with the European Union and the
impact on local industries: a response to a question raised in the
Senate May 24, 1995. by the Honourable Senator Johnson
regarding federal management of radioactive waste material: a
response to a question raised in the Senate May 25, 1995. by the
Honourable Senator Doyle regarding the report of the Auditor
General on foreign service travel directives: a response to a
question raised in the Senate May 25, 1995. by the Honourable
Senator Doyle regarding new directives on foreign service travel
directives; a response to a question raised in the Senate June 7.
1995, by the Honourable Senator Forrestall regarding
compensation tor cancelled EH-101 contracts; a response to a
question raised in the Senate June 7. 1995, by the Honourable
Senator LeBreton regarding the creation of jobs for women
through infrastructure programs: a response to a question raised
in the Senate June 8. 1995. by the Honourable Senator Bolduc
regarding a dispute with departments over unreported liabilities;
a response to a question raised in the Senate June 13, 1995. by
the Honourable Senator Kinsella regarding the return to
democracy in Nigeria; a response to a question raised in the
Senate June 14, 1995, by the Honourable Senator Corbin
regarding the closing of the Canada Council Art Bank; a
response to a question raised in the Senate June 15. 1995, by the
Honourable Senator Comeau regarding the dispute with the
European Union on newsprint; a response to a question raised in
the Senate June 15. 1995, by the Honourable Senator Atkins
regarding a request for a status report on environmental and
financial concerns associated with the sales abroad of CANDU
reactors; a response to a question raised in the Senate June 20,
1995, by the Honourable Senator Robertson regarding a new
federal-provincial silviculture agreement: a response to a
question by the Honourable Senator Doyle of June 20, 1995,
regarding the reorganization of the blood supply system: a
response to a question raised in the Senate June 20, 1995, by the
Honourable Senator Spivak regarding closer control on tobacco
products: a response to a question raised in the Senate June 20.
1995. by the Honourable Senator Kinsella regarding the
Canadian Race Relations Foundation Act: a response to a
question raised in the Senate June 21. 1995. by the Honourable
Senator Nolin regarding the unilingual English production of the
of
Cataloe National Sports E\ents: a response to a question
raised in thec Senate on Junie 21. 1995, by flhe Honourable Senator

Spivak regarding the use of bovine growth hormone
somatotropin and the delay in investigation of human health
risks; a response to a question raised in the Senate on June 21,
1995, by the Honourable Senator Johnson regarding the demise
of the Winnipeg Freshwater Science Teams: a response to a
question raised in the Senate June 27, 1995. by the Honourable
Senator Spivak regarding the link between IGF-I and breast
cancer: a response to questions raised in the Senate on June 27,
1995, by the Honourable Senators Nolin and Simard regarding
the granting of a public relations contract for the G-7 Summit; a
response to a question raised in the Senate June 27, 1995, by the
Honourable Senator Prud'homme regarding the granting of a
public relations contract for the G-7 Summit; a response to
questions raised in the Senate on June 28, 1995, by the
Honourable Senators Tkachuk and Robertson regarding the
RCMP marketing contract with Disney Corporation: and a
response to questions raised in the Senate June I1 and 12. 1995.
by the Honourable Senator Forrestall regarding the lease of
premises in Sydney, Nova Scotia.

TRANSPORT
AUTOMATED NAVIGATIONAL AND WEATHER SYSTEMS-REQUEST
FOR DOCUMENTATION-GOVERNMENT POSITION

(Response to question raised by Hon. Pat Carney on
December 15, 1994.)
Transport Canada, Aviation Group, is pleased to provide
ail documents it possesses on the Automatic Weather
Observation System (AWOS). It should be noted, however,
that this represents only a portion of the automated weather
aids used in providing Aviation weather information. For the
most part, the purchase and testing of automatic weather
stations including the Automatic Weather Observation
System (AWOS) has been under the purview of
Environment Canada.
Further, the attached documents refer only to automated
weather systems. as it is believed to be the thrust of the
question. Automated navigation aides for aviation purposes
consist of numerous individual pieces, from radar and ail its
component parts, instrument landing systems, lighting
systems, etc.
The Coast Guard has been operating automatic aids to
navigation for many years. It does not, however have
AWOS equipment at any of its sites. The Aids to Marine
navigation including related equipment are purchased from
reputable suppliers. Statistics show that main lights and fog
horns at unattended. remotely monitored lightstations are
operational more than 99 per cent of the time. These
statistics are based on outages of aids to navigation as
recorded by remote monitoring equipment. In order to
reassure users that automated aids to navigation equipment
are reliable, it is intended to remotely monitor the operation
of the equipment for a minimum of two years at newly
destaffed lightstations.
The Coast Guard conducts considerable in-house
pment testing at its Navigational Aids Test
equii
Establishment in Cardinal and ai the base in Prescoit.
Ontario.

October 3, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

The Coast Guard maintains a 133-page Catalogue of
Marine Aids Equipment. The description of the equipment
includes a photograph or drawing, the manufacturer, the
physical and operating characteristics and other relevant
information. Equipment is selected for use to meet
particular designs and service requirements.
In addition to the documentation regarding automated
navigational and weather systems provided by Transport
Canada, Environment Canada includes the following:
- a concise summary of significant studies that have been
undertaken to test the performance of AWOS and its
sensors, over the years, and
- a summary of the purchasing history of the AWOS
(previously referred to as READAC) project covering
Phases I, II, and III.
In the time since this question was raised in the Senate,
considerable information relating to this subject has been
provided to Senator Camey as Chair of the Standing Senate
Committee on Energy, the Environment and Natural
Resources. Additional information, responding to questions
raised at the June 6. 1995 information session of that
standing committee, was forwarded to the committee's clerk
in June.
SEARCH AND RESCUE-REPLACEMENT OF SEA KING AND
LABRADOR HELICOPTER FLEETS-EFFECT OF REPLACEMENTS
ON VIABILITY OF CANADIAN FORCES BASE SHEARWATERPERFORMANCE STANDARDS FOR REPLACEMENTS

(Response to question raised by Hon. J. Michael Forrestallon
March 21, 1995.)

The project offices for the Canadian Search and Rescue
Helicopter (CSH) and the Maritime Helicopter Project
(MHP) were established this summer. They will be charged
with managing al aspects of replacing these two helicopter
fleets. To date, work on both CSH and MHP has been
accomplished using staffs who normally deal with the
day-to-day operational and equipment requirements of the
Sea King and Labrador helicopters.
The 1994 federal budget directed that Canadian Forces
Base Shearwater would be reduced in size with the
movement of 434 Squadron to Canadian Forces Base
Greenwood. Furthermore, Shearwater is to be consolidated
as a detachment of Canadian Forces Base Halifax. There
have been no other statements made concerning further
reductions to Canadian Forces Base Shearwater by the
Government.
The cancellation of the New Shipborne Aircraft (NSA)
and New SAR Helicopter (NSH) projects resulted in a
re-evaluation of the operational requirement for both the
Marine Helicopter Project and the Canadian Search and

2071

Rescue Helicopter Project. In the case of the Marine
Helicopter Project, changes have occurred to reflect the new
defence policy as outlined in the 1994 white paper. For the
Canadian Search and Rescue Helicopter Project, while
capability requirements have been reduced from the EH-101
specification, they will still provide for an ample overaîl
level of SAR service in Canada.
INTERNATIONAL TRADE
RELATIONS WITH EUROPEAN UNION-IMPACT
ON LOCAL INDUSTRIES-GOVERNMENT POSITION

(Response to question raised by Hon. Gerrs St. Germain on
May 9, 1995)

On the general issue of trade irritants, the government is
currently pursuing the resolution of several disputes with the
European Commission, and with EU member states where
appropriate. Canada will not hesitate to use the dispute
settlement options open to us within the World Trade
Organization if required.
With respect to pulp and paper exports, the govemment is
indeed concerned about the activities of certain
environmental groups across Europe who are criticizing
forest practices in Canada. Several of these groups have
recently changed their tactics, and are now targeting
customers of Canadian producers, threatening to publicly
boycott newsprint which contains the product of Canadian
old growth forests.
The approach taken by the Canadian government to
respond to these activities has been to focus efforts on
acquainting all parties with the facts relating to Canada's
success in developing solutions to the challenge of
achieving sustainable forest management.
Canada is an environmentally responsible nation, and
continues to lead the world in its efforts to develop
internationally agreed rules and standards which will ensure
a global balance between economic and environmental
interests. The positive results achieved at the recent meeting
of the UN Commission on Sustainable Development are a
good illustration of these activities, where the important
decision to initiate an inter-govemmental panel on forests
was in large measure the result of preparatory work
completed by Canada in the FAO and other multilateral
fora.
It is Canada's view that the existence of a recognized
international approach to sustainable forestry, developed by
international consensus through the normal processes of a
credible international organization, would end the
uncertainties prevailing in this industry regarding the
acceptability of various forestry practices. It is the current

absence of such standards or guidelines which bas made it
too easy for some to raise support on the basis of
overstatement and misinformation, and to attempt to
interfere with the free flow of international trade in forest
products.
The task of responding to the various criticisms of
European environmental groups lies with the Department of
Foreign Affairs and International Trade, which. in concert
with the Canadian forestry service, the provinces. and
industry, bas addressed this particular issue by ensuring that
embassy personnel throughout Europe monitor and report
on local incidents and legislative proposals in this category.
respond quickly and factually to any criticism, build
partnerships with various interest groups, and strengthen
dialogue with key institutions, academics. scientists and
parliamentarians. Both incoming and outgoing missions
have been organised to ensure that knowledgeable parties
have the opportunity to view firsthand the realities of
conditions in Canadian forests, and to discuss local forestry
practice with stakeholders across Canada. In this way, the
misinformation promulgated by some groups bas been
exposed, and this extensive effort by Canadians to
communicate positive developments and achievements in
Canadian forest practices and land-use policies bas been
welcomed by customers in Europe.
Canada is also concerned about the impact of the
European Union's regulation on fur imports. The regulation,
which was enacted in 1991. would ban fur imports as of
January 1, 1996, if producers do not ban the use of jaw-type
leghold traps for 13 species or enact humane trapping
standards for those species.
The fur trade is one of Canada's oldest international
industries. It contributes approximately $600 million to the
Canadian GDP. Over 90% of Canadian wild fur is exported.
Europe bas always been the principal market. Over
100,000 Canadians are employed in the industry. About half
the 80,000 trappers are aboriginal Canadians for whom
trapping is not only an important source of income, but an
essential part of their heritage.
Canada was willing to cooperate with the European
Union in the implementation of the regulation because we
share the principles of sustainable use, animal welfare and
the preservation and expansion of the fur industry. However,
in late 1993, the European Commission issued a
reinterpretation of the regulation that no fur-producing
country could meet. Canada, and the other major producers.
the USA and Russia, are working to persuade the EU to
moderate the impact of the regulation.
The European Commission is supposed to decide by
September 1. 1995. which countries will be able to
continue to export to the European Union. Canada's position
is that the hest couîrse of action remains in finding a

Senatoir G.hain 1

cooperative way to resolve our differences, in a way that
fulfils our shared animal welfare goal and preserves the
international fur trade. The Prime Minister raised the fur
issue with Mr. Jacques Santer, the President of the European
Commission and other European union participants at the
G-7 Summit in Halifax. Following the summit the German
Chancellor, Helmut Kohl, as the guest of the Prime
Minister, visited the Northwest Territories. Chancellor Kohl
heard first hand the potentially devastating impact that the
fur regulation will have on northern and aboriginal
communities. Members of the European parliament and the
German bundestag have also recently visited Canada to
learn about the impact of the fur regulation.
As a result of the discussions at the Whistler quadrilateral
meeting and the G-7 Summit. the European Commission
agreed to form a working group to resolve this issue.
However, in spite of a number of initiatives on Canada's
part, Canada. the USA and the EU have not yet agreed to
even the basis for the formation of a working group to
negotiate an agreement on humane trapping. While it is in
everyone's interest to resolve this dispute through
negotiations, if there are no positive developments soon,
Canada will initiate the dispute settlement process under the
rules of the World Trade Organization.
Canada's strategy on the fur issue is developed in
consultation with the provinces, territories, industry and the
leading aboriginal groups. The Canadian government is
dedicated to the preservation of a legitimate trade.

THE ENVIRONMENT
FEDERAL MANAGEMENT OF RADIOACTIVE WASTE MATERIAIREPORT OF AUDITOR GENERAL OF CANADAGOVERNMENT POSITION

(Response to question raised by Hon. Janis Johnson
on MaY 24, 1995)
Canada's approach bas been to develop the concept for
disposal of the nuclear fuel waste (high-level radioactive
waste) deep within the rock of the Canadian Shield and to
carry out an in-depth environmental assessment and public
review to determine that it is safe and acceptable prior to
implementation of disposal.
Assuming a favourable response by the Canadian
Environmental Assessment Agency Panel to move forward
with implementation of disposal of nuclear fuel waste.
disposal is not anticipated to begin before 2025-2030
because the identification of a suitable site. site
characterization work, other related activities, as well as
obtaining the required environmental and regulatory
approvals, will take about 30 years. It is anticipated that
future funding requirements for the disposal of the nuclear
fuel vaste will be provided for by the nuclear utilities.

SENATE DEBATES

October 3, 1995

In the interim, nuclear fuel waste continues to be stored
safely and economically in water filled pools or dry storage
canisters at the Canadian nuclear reactor sites. The safe
storage and containment of the small volume of nuclear fuel
waste at these sites can continue for 50 years or more.
In March of this year. the Minister of Natural Resources
obtained approval from her cabinet colleagues to negotiate,
with major waste stakeholders, a policy framework
including organizational and financial options, for the
disposal of all radioactive wastes in Canada including
nuclear fuel waste.
A Discussion Paper was prepared by Natural Resources
Canada and released to the major stakeholders to get their
views on a policy framework for radioactive waste disposal.
The Minister of Natural Resources is planning to return to
Cabinet later this year with the results of these discussions
and negotiations, and with proposed options for the policy
framework. This initiative will respond to the Auditor
General's Report.
FOREIGN AFFAIRS
REPORT OF AUDITOR GENERAL ON FOREIGN
SERVICE TRAVEL DIRECTIVES-GOVERNMENT POSITION

(Response to question raised by Hon. Richard J. Doyle
on May 25, 1995)

The issue of the travel irregularities was the submission
of travel claims by employees that falsely requested
reimbursement for expenses not actually incurred by the
employee. Following a comprehensive investigation,
praised by the Auditor General for its thoroughness, those
employees making such false statements were disciplined.
An active audit program, implemented since then, has
ensured that such false statements are no longer made and
will not be made in the future.
Media reporting on this issue was very imprecise. In a
letter dated May 18, 1995. the Assistant Deputy Minister of
the Corporate Services Branch of the Department of Foreign
Affairs and International Trade responded to the many
inaccuracies reported in the media.
NEW DIRECTIVES ON FOREIGN SERVICE TRAVEL
DIRECTIVES-REQUEST FOR PARTICULARS

(Response to question raised by Hon. Richard J. Doyle
on May 25, 1995)

The Foreign Service Directives are negotiated with the
Public Service Bargaining Units once every three years.
Foreign service directives 45 and 50 were changed during
the last negotiations which were completed in June 1993.
Negotiations for the next review will commence during the
fall of 1995. and are expected to be completed by 1996.

2073

Foreign Service Travel Directives 45 and 50 read as
follows.
FSD 45 - Foreign Service Leave/Option
In addition to leave entitlements under your collective
agreement or compensation plan, Foreign Service Leave
gives you an extra 10 days of leave each year as a
premium for service abroad. (This leave is accumulated at
the rate of 10/12 days per year.) This leave may be
utilized with SBM approval in three different ways:
1. taken as leave after accrual or carried over from year
to year;
2. accrued credits may be cashed in, in part or in full
(although you should be aware that this dollar value is
taxable), on the basis of your salary in effect on the
preceding March 31, or;
3. any time you are assigned abroad or in conjunction
with relocation travel to or from a Post, 10 days of
accrued leave may be traded in exchange for a
transportation entitlement to reflect 85% of one full adult
return economy air ticket (Y) based on the return fare
from your mission to the Headquarters city. When there is
no "Y" fare, 100% of the "Y2" fare shall be used. The
accountable advance shall be accounted for in full on
completion of all travel for which the advance was issued,
or one year from the date of issuance of such advance,
whichever is earlier.
FSD 50 - Foreign Service Vacation Travel Assistance
Entitlements
FSD 50 applies to you and your accompanying
dependants at the mission. Where educational facilities at
the mission are not compatible and you have dependants
attending school away from the mission but not in
Canada, those dependants are also eligible for benefits.
Employees are given an option to claim:
1) a transportation entitlement which is fully
accountable based on full (Y) economy class fare
Post/Ottawa/Post; or
2) a non-accountable foreign service vacation travel
allowance of:
- 90% of full (Y) economy class fare for those posts
for which a stopover would be authorized for
relocation travel,
- 80% of full (Y) economy class fare for those posts
for which a stopover would not be authorized, or
- where (Y) fare is not existent, the allowance is based
on 100% of the Y2 fare.
Please note that employees must travel and although the
benefit is non-accountable, may be required to provide
evidence that travel has occurred!

1. Employees may return to headquarters. or any
alternative destination, at the completion or termination
of' each posting. In a cross-posting situation, should you
be asked to defer your return provided normally under
FSD 15 for operational reasons, you may use this
entitlement during the next posting;
2. Frequency of entitlements are calculated as follows:
at A-level (non-hardship) missions, once per tour of
duty of three years or more,

-

at Level I or Il hardship missions, once per two-year
tour of duty, twice per three-year tour of duty plus one
trip for each additional year beyond thrce years.

-

-at Level 111, IV and V mission. the same number of
trips per tour of duty as the number of years in the tour
oU duty;
3. Employees returning to Level III. IV and V missions
may dlaim for unaccompanied excess baggage. or an air
shipment. whichever is the lesser cost of' up to 20
kilograms for the employee and each accompanying
dependant trom Ottawa to the mission.
Conditions
The following conditions applv to FSD 50:
1. Travel may be undertaken at any time during a posting
but lapses on the termination oU each posting;
2. A minimum of 10 compensation days of leave must be
taken;
3. If option 1) is used. and where travel is undertaken by
car, you may dlaim actual and reasonable automobile
operating expenses or the "emnployee-requested"
kilometre rate in effeet at your point of departure;
4. If you used Foreign Service Vacation Travel
Assistance and terminate your posting early for personal
reasons. you may be required to reimburse the Crown for
aIl or part of the expenses previously incurred on your
behaîf.

systems - ail of which. ultimately. were to be integrated
into a single tunctional mission system.
The contract with Unisys was to span a period in excess
of' 10 years. Cancellation occurred at the cnd of the first
year. At that time, the company was in the early stages of
system design. had completed the set up of appropriate
project management systems. and had completed
negotiations with a number of suppliers of the mission
equipment which would later form part of the overail
EH-l01 mission system.
Because of' the design nature of the program, no actual
equipment had heen produced at the time of the
cancellation. The vast majority of the costs assoeiated with
the work were. therefore, used to pay for the labour hours
and assoeiated overhead costs spent on produeing the
various program plans. detailed design specifications.
design reviews and project management that are normally
associated with a long-term contract that requires
considerable initial design work. At the time of the
termination. the contractor had over 350 personnel working
directly on the eontract and this does not include either the
labour of the company's indirect staff nor the labour of its
subcontractors. As well. the company had oecupied an
additional building with ail of the overhead costs associated
with that building, procured engineering development
equipment and software, and entered into contret with
1l major subcontractors.
The only deliveries that had been made up to the point of
termination were documents and design reviews and,
therefore. it is not possible to provide a list of the completed
work items. The development equîpment and software
previously mentioned. totalling, approximately $3.5 million.
bas been transferred to the Department of National
Defence's ownership.
The contract with Unisys was terminated on November 5,
1993. as promised in the Government's Red Book. Unisys
was paid $98 million for work completed under the previous
administration and prior to contract termination.
TUE ECONOMY

NATIONAL DEFENCE
COMPENSATION FOR CANCELLED EH-101
CONTRACTS-REQUESI FOR PARTICULARS

(Response to question raised bY Hon. J. Michael Forrestalion
June 7, 1 995)
Under the terms of the contract. Unisys was requircd to
design, to integratc and to instaîl a full suiite of' mission
cquipmnicn tînt would cnablc thc anti-submanc variant of'
thc EH- 101 tîclicoptcî to dctect. Io locale and to dcstrov
cnc mv submiarinles. Includcd cqui pmnl x crc a sonar,
s\ sîcm. a radar sx stcmn. plus a x aricîN of oîhcr sensor
1 Senaioi

Griahain 1

CREATION 0F iOnS F~OR WOMEN TI-ROUGH INFRASTRUCTURE
PROGRAM-REQUEST FOR PARTICUIARS

(RespIoiise to question raised bY Hon. Marjor.v LeBreton 0on
June 7, 1995)
The main objectives of the Infrastructure program are to
renew Canada«s infrastructure and create employment.
Approximately 100.000 direct jobs will be created during
the design and construction phases of Infrastructure Works
pro jects. Over and above these I00.000 jobs, a total of
10.800 direct long-terni jobs will be gcerat cd bs the
provi dec b\
I111ormnation1
ng
iccoi11L
prograni,
ImunîlcipailitieS. lu addition. Infrastructuire Works ks a vei N

October3,
1995SENATE
DEBATES

October 3, 1995

important generator of indirect long-term jobs related to
other economic activities made possible as a resuit of'
improved road ways, water and sewer systems and other
forms of infrastructure.
The office of Infrastructure does flot keep statistics on the
number of women employed on Infrastructure projects since
hiring is done at the local level. The project proponent.
usually a municipality, is responsibie for project
management including the tendering of contracts. The
federal-provincial/territorial framework agreements indicate
that ail contracts will be awarded and administered in
accordance with the administrative, management and
contract procedures within the provi nce/terri tory. including
those of employment equity. The upcoming evaluation of
the program may enable us to determine the number of
women employed on Infrastructure prujects.
AUDITOR GENERAL
DISPUTE WITH DEPARTMENTS OVER UNREPORTED
LIABILITIES-GOVERNMENT POLICY

(Response to question raised bY Hon. Roch Bolduc on lune 8,
1995)

Generaiiy accepted accounting principies in Canada, as
established by the Canadian Institute of Chartered

Accountants, require the recognition of liabilities associated
with future site restoration costs when the likelihood of their
being incurred is established as the resuit of environmental
law, contract, or because an organization bas estabiished a
policy to restore a site and when such conts can be
reasonably determined. The position of the Govemment is
that, on the whole, these costs cannot yet be reasonabiy
determined.
This is a complex issue in that the costs associated with
remediating environmental damage wili very much depend
on the future use to be made of the site. A different standard
may appiy to a future wildemess site than will apply to a
future day care site. This uncertainty, coupied with a variety
of standards and methods of remediation, makes reasonable
quantification extremely difficuit.
The government is working towards full disclosure of
environmental liabilities in the Accounts of Canada. The
govemment bas provided note disclosure since 1991 and the
intent is to enhance that disclosure this fiscal year.
Government officiais are working with officiais of the
Office of the Auditor General on this matter and do flot
anticipate an audit reservation on tbe financial statements.
As was recognized in the government's response to the
recommendations of the Auditor General in his May report,
the requirement to disclose this iiability is accepted and will
be met when a reasonable estimate can be determined.

2075
27

FOREIGN AFFAIRS
RETURN TO DEMOCRACY IN NIGERIA-EFFORTS 0F DEPARTMIENT

(Response to question raised bY' Hon. Noël A. Kinsella
on lune 13, 1995)

The announcement expressing concern at delayed
denmocracy in Nigeria, as issued by the Canadian mission in
Lagos, was in fact issued in Ottawa and repeated in Lagos.
Measures adopted by Canada since the annulment of the
1993 presidential election apparently won by Chief
Moshood Abiola include the foiiowing:
- received Abiola in Ottawa and spoken out for bis
safety;
-

demanded dipiomatic access to political detainees,

-

cancelled visit to Canada by Institute of Strategic

Studies,
-

suspended Nigeria's eligibility for military and police

training assistance;
- cancelied proposed visit of Inspector Generai of
Police;
- declined request to negotiate investment protection
agreement;
- refused visas to senior Nigerian military and
ministers;
- blocked requests to send military-capable exports to
Nigeria;
- cailed repeatediy for Abiola's release as an
indispensable part of any solution;

-lowered

bilateral

relations

to Acting

High

Commissioner level;
-

sponsored severai prominent Nigerian democratic

activists to visit Canadian cities;
- declined to host meeting of Canada/Nigeria Joint
Commission;
- cited Nigerian abuses in severai UN human-rights
speeches and co-sponsored UN resolution on human rights
in Nigeria;

-refused to accredit new Nigenian miiitary attachés.
The adequacy of the existing measures is being reviewed.
It is worth recallîng that Nigeria is a regional power witb
the largest population and oul production in Africa. and
troops stationed in several West African nations. fi receives

no government-to-government aid from Canada, and enjoys
a substantial bilateral trade surplus with Canada based on
exports of over $600 million of oil in each of the last two
years. It is because Nigeria is relatively impervious to
foreign influence that its military regime has already
endured for 12 years, indeed all but four of the last 29 years.
as noted in the first press release.
Only through high-level contact and dialogue can we
encourage greater openness in other countries and advance
Canadian interests at the same time. With China, our policy
of engagement is built on four pillars: economic partnership,
sustainable development, peace and security, and support
for human rights, good governance and the rule of law.
Regarding the fourth pillar in our relationship with China support for human rights, good governance and the rule of
law - the people of Canada naturally expect that our
foreign policy will reflect the democratic principles upon
which Canadian society is based. Our government believes
that a great deal can be achieved through dialogue. While
we may not always agree with our partners at the
negotiating table. our strong commitment to long-term
global peace and stability will keep Canada at the table.
On a bilateral basis. we have expressed our concerns on
human rights to the Chinese leadership during high-level
visits and meetings. The Prime Minister first did so with
President Jiang Zemin during his visit to China in
November 1993 and, more recently, during Vice Premier
Zou Jiahua's visit to Ottawa in April 1994. Canada will
continue to use both bilateral and multilateral meetings,
such as the United Nations Commission on Human Rights,
to express our concerns about abuses in China.

CANADIAN HERITAGE
ABOLITION OF ART BANK-ROLE OF MINISTER

(Response to question raised by Hon. Eymard G. Corbin on
June 14, 1995)
The Art Bank was created in 1972 at the initiative of the
visual arts section of the Canada Council. with special funds
obtained through a Treasury Board submission put forward
by the Secretary of State.
The supporting documents that led to the Bank's creation
and to the allocation of the funds required for its first five
years of operation indicated that the program would not be
terminated without consulting with the Government through
the Secretary of State. After the initial five years. the
program was continued by the Council, which is responsible
for its resource allocation. policy and administration. Since
1978. there has been no specific requirement for the Canada
Council to consult with the Government. Therefore. the
quoted phrase "The program will not bc terminated without

1Senatoi

Grahan

1

consultation with the govemment through the Secretary of
State" has not been in force since then.
The decision to close the Art Bank was made by the
Canada Council Board, after a strategic review of its
operation and programs. The Council developed its strategic
plan independently from the Department. The Council's
strategic plan states that priority will be given to programs
which support creation, production and dissemination of the
arts, with a particular emphasis on dissemination to greater
numbers of Canadians across Canada. Viewed within these
objectives, the Art Bank, although a unique and valuable
program of support to the visual arts, was considered not to
fit within the plan: its cost of operations were said to be too
high. and its program of dissemination largely limited to
govemment office spaces.
The Canada Council has appointed a Committee of
Experts to make recommendations conceming the future of
the Art Bank's collection of artwork. The Committee has
begun its deliberations and will report to the Board before
year end. The federal Government is paying close attention
to the process now underway and remains sensitive to the
concerns expressed by the members of the contemporary art
scene in Canada.

INTERNATIONAL TRADE
DISPUTE WITH EUROPEAN UNION ON NEWSPRINT
GOVERNMENT POSITION

(Response to question raised by Hon. Gerald J. Comneau on
June 15, 1995)
Canada and several other countries are engaged in
negotiations with the European Union for tariff
compensation. This is owed as a result of increased import
duties on Canadian and other countries' exports to Sweden,
Finland, and Austria since those three countries joined the
European Union on January 1, 1995. The European Union
ministerial decision to implement a reduction for newsprint
is considered as partial compensation only. The European
Union bas indicated their willingness to improve upon these
tariff reductions in the final negotiations.
These negotiations are in no way related to the turbot
issue and the government does not expect that Canada's
action on turbot will prevent the goal of finalizing an
acceptable long-term compensation package from being
achieved.
Minister MacLaren has decided not to increase duty rates
at this moment provided that the European Union is
prepared to accelerate negotiations to conclude a final
compensation package as soon as possible.

October 3, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

SENATE DEBATES

October 3, 1995

FOREIGN AFFAIRS
SALES ABROAD 0F CANDU REACTORS-REQUEST FOR STATUS
REPORT ON ENVIRONMENTAL AND FINANCIAL CONCERNS

(Response to question raised bY' Hon. Norman K. Atkins on
Aine 15, 1 995)

ROMANIA
Canada and Romania signed a Nuclear Co-operation
Agreement (NCA) in 1977, allowing for the establishment
of commercial relations in the development and application
of atomic energy for peaceful purposes. It is important to
note that the NCA was primarily triggered by Romania's
interest in Canadian nuclear technology. Romania was
attracted by the safety features of the CANDU reactor and
the possibilities for nuclear autonomy that could derive from
the relative accessibility of the technology, as well as the
domestic availability of heavy water and natural uranium as
the fuel for the reactor.
In the early 1980s, Atomic Energy of Canada Limited
(AECL) played an advisory role to the Romanians. In 1990,
it was invited to complete the first unit of the planned
five-unit Cernavoda nuclear power plant in Romania.
Cernavoda Unit 1 is now completed; full in-service is
expected in early 1996.
Environmental Concemns:

The CANDU reactor in Romania was built in accordance
with strict Western safety standards. That the reactor will be
completed in accordance with these standards is ensured by
AECL and an Italian consortium, which have the
contractual responsibility for completing it.
The Romanian govemnment shares our concemn for safety
and has taken the necessary measures to ensure that the
strictest safety standards are observed. Internai reviews by
both Romania and AECL, plus the International Atomic
Energy Agency, have confirmed that Cernavoda Unit 1 wiIl
be completed to the high standards of quality and safety that
Canada demands.
In addition, over the past several years, Canada has been
training Romanian reactor operators and regulators to
ensure that Unit 1 will be operated to a high standard of
safety. Over 100 Romanian operators have been through a
training course run by New Brunswick Power at its Point
Lepreau Station, using the Canadian utility's full scale
control roomn simulator. The Point Lepreau CANDU unit is
the same basic design as the CANDU 6 being built in
Romania.
AECL will be responsible for operating the reactor for the
first year and a haîf to ensure that Western operating
standards are well established.

2077
2077

Financial Concerns:

In 1979. the Canadian government approved a loan of
over US$680 million through the Export Development
Corporation (EDC) for the construction of a CANDU
reactor in Romania. Romania used only a part of the loan.
which it later repaid in full with interest. Another boan of
over C$300 million was approved in 1991. Both boans were
provided at market, non-concessional interest rates.
In the early part of the program, the Romanian authorities
clearly experienced a number of problems and deIays which
have increased the cost of the projeet. However, it is
difficult for Canada to know how Romanian's cost estimates
changed during this period.
Since AECL and its Italian partner took charge of the
project in 1991. the work has progressed well. even though
unexpected delays and additional costs have been required
to upgrade some of the equipment. However. there does not
appear to have been a very signiticant cost increase over this
period.
AECL and its Italian joint-venture partner are interested
in securing financing to complete Unit 2 at Cernavoda. If
AECL decides to approach the Canadian government for
additional funding to complete Unit 2, the question will be
examined carefully.
INDIA
Canada supplied India with the CIRUS nuclear research
reactor and two CANDU power reactors at the Rajasthan
Atomic Power Plant in the 1960s (RAPP 1 and 2). Thus,
India was one of Canada's first partners in advancing the
peaceful uses of nuclear energy. Canada terminated bilateral
nuclear cooperation with India in 1976.
The Canadian government's decision to suspend bilateral
nuclear cooperation with India was triggered by India's
refusaI to accept Canada's new nuclear non-proliferation
policy conditions. These requirements, which included
signature of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT)
and accepting International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA)
safeguards on ail present and future nuclear activity, were
set out in response to India's 1974 nuclear explosion. At the
time, it was felt that matenial subject to Canadian controls
was used in the explosion, in violation of the agreement
between Canada and India.
Canada does not have nuclear trade or cooperation with
India.
The situation between Canada and India is different from
that with Romania. because India is not a signatory of the
NPT and does not accept IAEA safeguards on its nuclear
acti vities.

In 1990. on the basis of IAEA recommendations, Canada
offered limited safety assistance to help India meet the
serious. urgent satety problems with the RAPPS 1 and 2
reactors that it supplied in the 1960s and which are under
IAEA safeguards. The offer to assist was made with safety
concernis in mind; it was flot intended to make the reactors
operate more effectively. Canada*s limlited assistance would
be carried out under IAEA auspices. So far, India has not
accepted the offer of assistance.
The safety of the RAPPS reactors is clearly the
responsibility of the Indian authorities.
It is important to note, however. that the RAPPS 1 and 2
reactors are not currently in operation. The Indian
authorities have shut them down for safety reasons due to
deteriorating pressure tubes. Canadian experts were notified
of' the problem in a February 1994 meeting of an IAEA
technical committee. In July 1994. an IAEA consultants
meeting involving Canadian and Indian experts prepared a
report to assist the Indian authorities on solving the
problem.
In view of the energy India will need now and in the near
future to sustain economic development. the govemnment
may be reconsidering the offer ot assistance made by
Canada in 1990.
POTENTIAL SALES
Possible sale of' Canadian nuclear technology to
Indonesia. Egypt or China raise no difficulties l'or Canada in
terms of bilateral riuclcui cooperation. Ail three have sigiied
bilateral Nuecar Cooperation Agreements with Canada
pledging to use nuclear energy for peaceful purposes only:
Indonesia signed on July 12, 1981. Egypt on May 17. 1982,
and China on November 7. 1994.
A Nuclear Cooperation Agreement with a partner country
is an instrument that both opens the way for bilateral nuclear
exchanges and provides assurances that interchange
between Canada and the partner country takes place in
accordance with our nuclear non-proliferation policy.
Canada believes that bilateral nuclear cooperation makes
nuclear trade more transparent. and it alsu ensures that
nuclear items supplied by Canada are being used for
peaceful purposes only.
The Canadian government considers that these three
countries are responsibie nuclear partners who wiIl use the
nuclear items supplied by Canada f'or peaceful purposes
only.
Both Indonesia and Egypt are signatories of the
Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT) and have accepted IAEA
sat-eguards on aIl of' their nuclear activities. As a NPT
nuclear xseapon state. China diflers slightl y froin the two
other counitries. as it has a Volunîary ( )ler Saleguards
Atreeieii with the IAEA.
ISenalor Grahani 1

Canada has received assurances from China that the
nuclear items subject to the Canada-China Nuclear
Cooperation Agreement wilI be used only within the
framework of civilian activities. suhject to the saf'eguards
agreement between China and the IAEA.
NATURAL RESOURCES
NEW FEDERAL-PROVINCIAL SILVICULTURE AGREEMENTGOVERNMENT POSITION
(Response to question raised bY' Hon. Brenda Robertson 011

June 20, 1995)
In the February 27, 1995 budget documents, the federal
govemrment reconfirmed the position originally announced
by the previous federal goverriment. that the Forest
Resource Development Agreements with the provinces will
be discontinued.
The Atlantic Canada Opportunities Agency (ACOA) is in
the process of negotiating new agreements with the
provinces. Under the new agreements, should there be
individual projects involving value-added and trade-related
initiatives in the forestry sector. ACOA would be willing to
consider assistance within its limited financial capacity.
The federal govemrment recogni/es the Province of' New
Brunswick program (ie. Silviculture Improvement Program)
and the contributions made by the private woodlot sector in
New Brunswick. The Agreement between the Province of
New Brunswick and the New Brunswick Federation of'
Woudlot Owners is important in encouraging the
management of private forest lands in New Brunswick and
in increasing the economic. social and environmental
potential of these lands for the benefit of other stakeholders.
The termination of aIl forest resource development
agreements (FRDAs) under which private woodlots were
financially supported, was announced by the previous
govemrment in its 1993 budget. In view of the current fiscal
situation. the goverriment confirmed in its February 1995
budget that the FRDAs will not be renewed.
Historically, the New Brunswick FRDA has been funded
through the ACOA. Given the severe financial constraints
that ail departments. including ACOA. are facing. it has not
been possible to identify new sources of funding to support
a transition forestry program in New Brunswick and
elsewhere in Canada.
Moreover. federal-provincial/territorial cooperation is
under continued discussion with provincial and territorial
colleagues through the Canadian Council of Forest
Ministers. Natural Resources Canada remains committed to
workineo with the provinces and territories. within the limits
of' oui- Iinancial abi lity i n arecas of' federal responsihi lii v.
such as international trade. science and techniologv. on job
o
creatijon and sustai nah le Ilanac11-eIle nit0 I' forýeSts.

October3, DEBATES
995SENATE

October 3, 1995

HEALTH
REORGANIZATION 0F BLOOD SUPPLY SYSTEMGOVERNMENT POSITION

(Response to question raised hi' Hon. Richard J. Dovle on
lune 20, 1995)

Last February the Governmenî released the Jnterim
Report of the Krever Commission - the Commission of
Inquiry on the Blood System in Canada. It is very important
10 reiterate the main conclusion of that Interim Report.
Justice Krever said that Canada's blood supply is not less
safe than that of other developed nations. This is a very
important message for Canadians to hear, and il bears
repeating.
Justice Krever also urged all the participants in the
national blood supply sysîem not 10 be complacent. The
Government feels this message sbould be beeded by aIl
parîners in the blood supply system. For its part, the
Government bas acted, and will continue to take action 10
sîrengthen the safeîy of the blood supply. The Government
indicated as much when it released ils Response 10 Justice
Krever's Interim Report, which was tabled in the House of
Commons by the Minister of Health on June 7/95.
Justice Krever himself said that bis Interim Report was
not a full examination of the blood system. He focussed on
the current safety of Canada's blood supply, and he said that
he was leaving an assessment of the national blood supply
program and system for bis final report. He also said that, at
Ibis time, il would be premature to expect full
implementation of ail tbe recommendaîlons be makes in bis
Interim Report. General questions about the national blood
supply system and ideas about ils organization would best
be served by referring 10 Justice Krever's advice in bis final
report, whicb is due te, be submitted t0 tbe Government by
December 31 of Ibis year.
The blood system in Canada is multi-faceîed. Lt includes
the provinces and territuries, hospitals and medical
practitioners, the Canadian Blood Agency, the federal
government, and others. Justice Krever recognized that the
system today is dynamic and undergoing changes at a rapid
rate.
The Government of Canada will continue t0 monitor
these changes, wbicb are occurring at aIl levels of the
system. Where it is appropriate and witbin ils jurisdiction,
the Govemnment will regulate and inspect ail manufacturers
of blood, blood producîs and components 10 ensure they are
safe, efficacious and of the higbest possible quality.
The Government bas considerable scientific, technical
and administrative expertise whicb il bas brougbî 10 bear on
those recommendations wbicb are witbin the scope and
mandate of the Government's jurisdictional autbority.
Wbere practical and warranted. the Goveroment is prepared

2079
27

t0 apply ils expertise 10 assist others in implementing Justice
Krever's recommendations relating to their jurisdictional
authorities.
Very recently there have been dlaims made in the media
that there may be "chronic blood shortages" in some of the
country's hospitals and that public confidence in the safety
of the blood supply needs to be regained. One of the best
ways to rebuild public confidence is for ail the partners in
the national system to, demonstrate their commitment 10
finding new ways 10 make the blood supply even safer. The
Government has taken action and will continue to act t0
strengthen the safety of the blond supply. Others are acting
in their own ways t0 rebuild public confidence. Indeed,
Canadians sbould be reassured by Justice Krever's
conclusion affirming the quality of the Canadian blood
supply.
Justice Krever also emphasized that nothing he
recommended in bis Interim Report will diminish the urgent
need for Canadians 10 donate blood. He recognized the
enormous contributions made by Canada's blood donors by
saying that ail members of Canadian society owe blood
donors a debt that can neyer be repaid.
One cannot but agree with Justice Krever, who said that
by their past generosity, the blood donors of Canada have
sbown that tbey can be relied on 10 continue their selfless
actions as long as blood is necessary for îberapeuîic
purposes.
Tumning 10 the question of the National Forum on Health
and whether the subject of the national blond supply system
is receiving specific attention from the Forum, il should be
noted that the mandate of the Forum is to inform and
involve Canadians and advise govemnment on the ways to
improve the health of the population. The Forum has been
designed t0 promote a dialogue with Canadians about their
health care system to determine wbetber changes can be
made that lead t0 better bealth while respecting the
principles on which our system was buiît. The Forum bas
begun t0 examine key issues under four main themes, and
there may be some opportunity t0 discuss the national blood
supply system under this tbematic approach, but that is very
much up 10 the Forum itself to determine.
CLOSER CONTROL ON TOBACCO PRODUCTSGOVERNMENT POSITION

(Response to question raisedhi' Hon. Mira Spivak on -June 20,
1995)

The purpose of the Hazardous Producîs Adt 15 10 ensure
the safety of personal. bousebold. or recreational producîs
by either prohibiting tbem or by regulaîing their sale.
adverti sement, aiid importation. Producîs are regulated
under the Hazardous Products Act in order 10 make themi
satè. Currently. il is not possible 10 miake tobacco salè.

The Department of Justice has carried out an in-depth
review of the possibility of using the Hazardous Products
Act to regulate tobacco and has confirmed that it is flot an
appropriate legisiative vehicle for this purpose.

Canadian Sport and Fitness Administration Centre (CSFAC)
to remind them of their contractual obligations, as recipients
of federal financial support. with respect to the publishing of
materials in both officiai languages.

Current drug enactments are flot designed to control
tobacco. Basically, under the Food and Drugs Act, a drug is
detined as anything intended for use for medical purposes.
Tobacco does flot meet this criteria since it has no medical
use.

CSFAC officiaIs have translated the Canadian Sport
Guide - summer edition into French. and it was released to
the media and the public on July 24, 1995.

There already exists a comprehensive legislative
framework and strategy to dca! with tobacco under the
Tobacco Products Control Act and the Tobacco Sales to
Young Persons Act (ISYPA). With respect to modifying the
Tobacco Products Control Act, since its constitutionality has
been challenged before the Supreme Court. it would be
inappropriate to modify it until the Court's decision is
rendered.

Although the cuts in support to the CSFAC over the
1994-95 and 1995-96 fiscal years have been major. the
CSFAC made an error in judgement in stating that the guide
could flot be pubIished in French because of the cuts.
Sport Canada officiais have met with CSFAC
management. reminded them of their contractual
responsibilities as a federally supported institution. and
resolved the situation - the guide will be produced in
French.

The government will have an opportunity to review
tobacco policy options once the decision from the Supreme
Court has been made.

HUMAN RIGHTS
ESTABLISHMENT 0F CANADIAN RACE RELATIONS FOUNDATIONGOVERNMENT POSITION

(Response Io a question raî.4edbv the Hon. Nol A. Kinsella on
lune 20, 1995)
The officiai proclamation date of the Canadian Race
Relations Foundation Act has flot yet been determined.
Several implementation activities are required before
proceeding with proclamation. These include appointing an
Executive Director. selecting the Board of Directors.
strengthening the accountability regime ot the Canadian
Race Relations Foundation Act and deveioping some
operating guidelines for the Board.
While selection for the Board of Directors and the
Executive Director have begun. the process bas yet to be
completed.

CANADIAN HERITAGE
CATALOGUE 0F NATIONAL SPORTS EVENTS-FAILURE
TO PUBLISH IN FRENCH GOVERNMENT POSITION

(Response to question raised b.v Ho,,. Pierre Claude No/j,, on
lune 21, 1995)
The contribution agreement issued by Sport Canada,
which is the contract outlining the obligations of recipient
organizations. includes the requirement to provide equitable
service to the public iii both officiai languages.
Off iciais of the Sport Canada branch of the Departmient of
Canadian Hcrita-e havec contacted r-epr-esentati\,ex, fromn the
1 Senati-r ahani 1

HEALTH
USE 0F BOVINE GROWVI- HORMONE
SOMATOTROPIN OELAY IN INVESTIGATION OF
1IUMAN HEALT*H RISKS GOVERNMENT POSITION

(Response Io question raisedb.r Hon. Mira Spiî'ak on .1iune 2 1,
1995)
Health Canada is the regulator of this product and makes
scientifically-based decisions that result in the issuing or flot
issIIing of a Notice of' Compliance. Until the review is
completed, rBST cannot be sold or distributed in Canada.
The review by H-ealth Canada is independent of' any
moratorium.

The moratorium was a voluntary undertaking on the part
of the manufacturers of BST. Health Canada must remain as
an independent regulatory body. As such. Health Canada is
flot in a position to cail for a voluntary moratorium.
The scientitic and procedural information provided to the
Standing Committee on Agriculture and Agri-Food was
correct. Under the Access 10 Information Act. this could flot
include contidential, proprietorial data contained in the
manufacturers* submissions.

FISHERIES AND OCEANS
CUIS IN DEPARTMENTAI BUDGET-DEMISE 0F WINNIPEG
FRESHWATER SCIENCE TEAMIS-GOVERNMENT POSITION

(Responsc Io question s raised b6v Hon. l.an is .Iolinon
on.lune 21, /995)
I cFWT >. one of flicorl
The Feixh xwater Instite
leading, research ccnîres for freshw~ater l'ishei-ies, research. is
S
the r-eg(ionaI h1C.1dqtîaî t1C o! tlic Central and Arctic Region

October 3, 1995

Octoer

SENATE DEBATES

195
SNATEDEBTES2081
.

for the federal Department of Fisheries and Oceans. This
region extends throughout the provinces of Ontario.
Manitoba, Saskatchewan, Alberta, the Northwest Territories.
and the North Yukon Slope. The FWI provides facilities for
fisheries and environmental research, as well as for
non-research activities of the Region such as fisheries
inspection, fisheries management, economic analysis, and
administration. It is the major federal government centre for
freshwater fisheries and Arctic fisheries research.
Scientists at the FWI play a critical role in a number of
regional and national issues relative to freshwater,
freshwater fisheries, and Arctic marine fish and marine
mammals, issues such as the impact of Arctic oil and gas
development on fish habitats, toxic contaminants,
aquaculture development, inland fisheries enhancement, and
acid rain.

2081

delegation of freshwater fish habitat protection and
freshwater fisheries management to provinces.
Discussions between the two departments are continuing
on the transfer of freshwater and marine programs. These
talks are taking longer than originally anticipated due to the
complex, multi-faceted nature of some of the affected
programs, and the difficult challenge of meeting the
reduction targets. In the case of the program at the
Experimental Lakes Area, for example, an examination is
underway of potential partnership alternatives which could
provide a sound long-term financial base for the program.
HEALTH
BOVINE GROWTH HORMONE-LINK BETWEEN IGF-1
AND BREAST CANCER-GOVERNMENT POSITION

The work of the Freshwater Institute at the Experimental
Lakes Area in northwestern Ontario focuses on the
experimental manipulation of small lakes to long-term
pollution stresses. The program has contributed to
world-class scientific advancements; notably for the effects
of acid rain and phosphorus-based laundry detergents. The
government is hopeful that this program will continue to
generate the scientific knowledge needed to support
management of Canada's water resources.

(Response to question raisedbyv Hon. Mira Spivak on June 27,
1995)

The work of the Great Lakes Laboratory for Fisheries and
Aquatic Sciences, which is located at the Canada Centre for
Inland Waters in Burlington, Ontario, is an important
component of Canada's commitment to the Great Lakes
Water Quality Agreement. Water Quality in the Great Lakes
continues to be a high priority of this government.

Until the evaluation by Health Canada is completed and a
decision made, rBST cannot be sold for use in Canada.

It is intended, as part of the rationalization of freshwater
and marine responsibilities in the Department of Fisheries
and Oceans (DFO) and the Department of the Environment
(DOE), to transfer the affected freshwater programs from
DFO to DOE. These programs, as is the case for all
departmental programs, are facing budgetary reductions as a
result of program review. The budget reduction to the
affected DFO freshwater science programs for the 1995/96
fiscal year is approximately 22%. Pending discussions with
Environment Canada, no decisions have been made for
reductions in future years,
On November 18, 1994, a Memorandum of Intent was
signed at the Deputy Minister level, on the rationalization
and transfer of responsibilities between the Department of
Fisheries and Oceans and the Department of the
Environment. The objective is to reduce overlap and
duplication between federal departments and other levels of
government. Under this initiative. the Department of
Fisheries and Oceans would become primarily an oceans
department. The Department of the Environment would
become the lead federal department for freshwater
responsibilities. A further aspect would involve the

Products containing rBST are currently under evaluation
in the Bureau of Veterinary Drugs of the Department of
Health. Review of safety issues on IGF-I, including its
physiological function and possible link to breast cancer is
still ongoing, and no decisions have been made regarding
the issuance of a notice of compliance for these veterinary
drug products.

COMMUNICATIONS
GRANTING OF PUBLIC RELATIONS CONTRACT FOR G-7 SUMMITCONTRAVENTION OF TREASURY BOARD REGULATIONSGOVERNMENT POSITION-REQUEST FOR ESTIMATED FINAL COST

(Response to questions raised by the Hon. Pierre Claude Nolin
and the Hon. Jean-MauriceSimard on June 27, 1995)

There are strict conditions under which the Government
may offer sole source contracts. These include cases where
the contracts are smaller than $30,000, in cases of urgency
or in cases where corporations sponsor free goods or
services. A number of these cases applied to various
contracts arranged to support the Halifax Summit.
The preparations for the Halifax Summit were done in a
very tight time frame, necessitating some quick decisions. In
the case of the public relations firm, the decision to award a
sole-sourced contract to Groupe Columbia Inc. was made on
the basis of an urgent need for specialized communications
assistance for the Summit. The decision was taken after
reviewing a number of informal proposals from public
relations firms. although a formal tendering process was not
undertaken. Groupe Columbia submitted the earliest and
most complete bid to handle all the communications
functions of the Summit. Further. the firm's capabilities
were well known to the Summit organizers.

The firm provided specific assistance in organizing public
events and media relations for the Summit. The assistance
provided by Groupe Columbia Inc. helped foster the
positive image of Canada portrayed in the media. It was also
instrumental in ensuring good relations with the people of
Halifax.

Licensee for the RCMP the MPF will receive, maintain and
manage funds generated from the Licensing Programs.
These funds will be directed to support and to enhance
RCMP community policing, public relations and crime
prevention programs throughout Canada.

The final cost of company's services is $43 1,000.00. The
total cost of the Halifax Summit was $28 million. cheaper
than both the Toronto Summit in 1988 and Naples Summit
in 1994.

The RCMP Product Licensing Program was formally
launched on January 27. 1995, in a press conference
attended by the Solicitor General, the Commissioner of the
RCMP and the President of the Mounted Police Foundation
(MPF). The event generated national press coverage. In this
regard. over 450 letters were sent out to known users of
RCMP intellectual property, by the RCMP and the MPF
advising them of the licensing program and of the
application requirements. In addition, pursuant to Section
9(1)(n)(iii) of the Trade Mark Act, the RCMP filed formai
notices with the Registrar of Trade Marks. As a result.
notice of the licensing program was published in various
Trade Mark journals.

GRANTING OF PUBLIC RELATIONS CONTRACT FOR G-7 SUMMITREQUEST FOR PARTICULARS ON ADVICE GIVEN TO RCMP

(Response to question raised by Hon. Marcel Prud'homme on
June 27, 1995)
On March 9, 1995. the RCMP contracted a public
relations firm from Halifax, Arlington Consultants, to
conduct a media relations training course for 18 RCMP,
local police, military and Ports Canada officers responsible
for media relations during the Halifax G-7 Summit. This
contract was financed through the Halifax Summit Office.
Since the contract was for less than $30,000, Treasury
Board guidelines allowed for it to be signed without a
formai tendering process.
The purpose of the course was to train the officers in
media liaison functions and general public relations.
particularly how to respond to media questions. how to
present useful information and how to ensure that the people
of Halifax were informed on security arrangements affecting
access to downtown areas and Summit public events. The
course took place on 1-8 May. 1995 in Halifax.

Following these communications initiatives, the MPF
received unsolicited offers of service and/or proposais from
a variety of companies, of both Canadian and American
origin, specializing in licensing or in specific aspects of the
licensing industry. Interest from solely American companies
was not considered. The MPF reviewed applications from
Canadian companies at length, focusing on company history
and reputation in the licensing industry, established
marketing and advertising capabilities, creative capabilities.
revenue control systems, access to the Canadian
manufacturing base, and access to international marketing
and distribution networks. The MPF determined that the
proposal from the Walt Disney Company (Canada) Ltd. was
superior in many ways.

The final cost of the contract was $13.200.

SOLICITOR GENERAL
RCMP MARKETING CONTRACT WITH DISNEY CORPORATIONREQUEST FOR PARTICULARS

(Response to questions raised by Hon. David Tkachuk and
Hon. Brenda M. Robertson on June 28, 1995)
The Mounted Police Foundation (MPF) was established
to assist the Commissioner of the Royal Canadian
Foundation (RCMP) in administering the commercial use of
the intellectual properties which are the principal public
identifiers of the RCMP. The Foundaion was incorporated in
June of 1994. Its Board of Directors is comprised of
prominent niembers of the community who are volunteering
their time, energy and experience in support of the RCMP
and its community policing initiatives. As the Master

[ Senatoi Grahan 1

Under the terms of the contract, the Walt Disney
Company (Canada) Ltd., will act in the capacity of agent for
the Mounted Police Foundation, to develop and to
administer the RCMP Product Licensing Program. Walt
Disney (Canada) Ltd. will not be directly involved in the
manufacturing of goods but rather will license Canadian
companies to supply licensed goods for the program. The
RCMP retains all ownership of its intellectual property and
will have final approval over all use of its image by
licensees to the program.
Royalties from the sale of licensed goods will be shared
between the MPF and Walt Disney Canada (Ltd.) on a
sliding. five-year scale. In the first year of the agreement,
the MPF will retain 51 per cent. while Walt Disney Canada
(Ltd.) will receive 49 per cent. sliding to 55 per cent (MPF)
and 45 per cent (Walt Disney Canada Ltd.) by vear live.

October 3, 1995

October 3, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

2083
2083

SENATE DEBATES

The costs of administering the program (i.e., creative,
administrative, and management personnel; contract
negotiation; marketing; advertising; revenue control; etc.)
will be the sole responsibility of Walt Disney Canada (Ltd.)
and will be paid for out of its share of the royalties.
The MPF's percentage of the royalties will be allocated to
support existing RCMP community policing programs, such
as crime prevention initiatives, victims services, and drug
awareness programs.
The contract in question is between the MPF and the Walt
Disney Company (Canada) Ltd., based in Etobicoke,
Ontario. Contract negotiations were conducted by the MPF
at Disney's offices in Etobicoke and with the RCMP in its
offices in Ottawa. Expenses incurred by the MPF in these
negotiations were paid for by the MPF. These negotiations
did not involve the travel of RCMP or MPF personnel
outside Canada.
The MPF has contracted with the Walt Disney Company
(Canada) Ltd. which acts independently of the parent
company ini the United States and wbich is fully equipped to
handie ail aspects of the program. Walt Disney (Canada)
Ltd. is well established in the Canadian licensing industry
and bas been since 1966. The company bas extensive ties
with Canadian manufacturing and distribution networks. Ail
operational and administrative aspects of the MPF and the
Walt Disney (Canada) Ltd. agreement will be handled solely
by the Walt Disney Company (Canada) Ltd. Under the
provisions of the agreement, the Walt Disney Company
(Canada) Ltd. will give priority to Canadian manufacturers
as licensees to the program. As the Walt Disney Company
(Canada) Ltd. expands the licensing program to include
foreign markets in the United States, UJnited Kingdom and
Japan, it will be liaising with Disney offices in those
countries to use existing distribution channels for the
marketing of RCMP licensed products.

CANADA POST CORPORATION
TFASE

0F PRENUSES IN SYDNEY; NOVA SWflA-PnTERVENION
0F MM91E~lR 0F PUBLIC WORKS

(Response to questions raised by Hon. J. Michael Forrestali
on July Il and 12, 1995)

Pursuant to the request by the Minister's office, this
revîew will include the analysis of the events in
chronological order, ail supporting documentation as well as
the financial evaluation that directly relate to the leader at
124 Pitt Street, Sydney, Nova Scotia.
The purpose of this review is to determine the merits of
this transaction.
The precise terms of reference are outlined in the attacbed
letter dated July 24, 1995, from Canada Post Corporation to
Price Waterhouse.
(For the text of the letter see Appendix A, page 2084)

ANS WERS TO ORDER PAPER QUESTIONS TABLED
AGRICULTURE FOOD CANADA
Hion. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Goverument) tabled the answer to Question No. 81 on the Order
Paper-by Senator Tkachuk.
SOLICITOR GENERAL 0F CANADA

Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government) tabled the answer to Question No. 86 on the Order
Paper-by Senator Tkachuk.
CrrzMNSHW AND IMMlIGRATION CANADA

Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government) tabled the answer to Question No. 89 on the Order
Paper--by Senator Tkachuk.
MARIN

ATLNIC-)V. BIXJENSE FERRY SERVICE

Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government) tabled the answer to Question No. 99 on the Order
Paper-by Senator Comneau.

The Senate adjourned until Wednesday, October 4, 1995, at
1:30 p.m.

APPENDIX A
(See page 2083)

PQSTE >A
1«.... cime-""

lq Mave

IL

<.MSU4 'US C.W"»On..

July 24, 1995

Pnie W1at«rhotUa.
1250 RkéUvsu Blvd. West
Suite 3300

MoDireul 0& 1138 2.Q4
4 ff.ftion. Aifr. Rya:ft7 Go. dm44a

Re:

Exazxination of Leau

In accords.nce with the request n( lhe M4i.nirter rmsponsiblo r.or Caada Po3t
Corporition (»the Miisict-) as set =u in th* artached Iciter of JiuIy 10, 1995, Price
WaLerhaise is appoinied to cafry cul an inJç:pcfl"fIt review and cvaluaUion of thc
details reiating to the kcasc estered iat by Canada Post Corporation (eCFC*) for its
retail autiet located si 124 Pitt Svect, Sydney, Nova Scotia.
T'bc objec:Uve of youx exarnination is Io- assess the basis for, and rinancial
("tbe CPC
mcrits of. the alurc-nu-tioned Icase ..rdlic trnsactions dioecly related to it
wnte.views 0f tMoxe iredividuals 'o be
1ease»). Yotu' exarninalion sliall alsa încludc
selccted by Pri=%Waierhouse as you deem necessary.
to CpC
lni carrying out your examination you will have unrestzicicd acc=3
crn>ipuy-mz and ta documents in their possession. Additionly. CPC 'vi]i assis% Price
%who
Waicrhousc in arranging intis vicws of individuels other than CPC emnploye«
ha,ý,e, or uarelaleged to have. direct L-nowiedge of the CPC lease. -Your work shouid
speziiî&zaIly include visits to, CrC locatiogu iii Sydns.y. HalifaX nd Ottawa.

a
Atthe substantiel cornpicuion of your exam-nation. you should subnmit
draft repart
prc!imninary report in draft fbrm. Io CPC. LJpoc recaipt of the ptelirmiflbJ
CprC 'vili ptovidc Pric Waterhousc wil.h comnnents in~written forni. Speciically,
ci* riateniai events
CPC as-tcs chat il WjIl advise Fri.t W*:tcrhouse a to t.hc accuracy

October 3, 1995

October3, 1995SENATE DEBATES

iuly 24, 1995
Price Watcrhause

2085

28

pas* 2 or 3

mod facu » ap#set.d by price, wstgdwuw in lui dnAf report ld kflown by CC. A1
flia report should the bc prepared wd submittcd to CPC.
CPC es ta hod Pricie Watchogs fre. SMd huszleu fmrrnmy detauni,
daim or actions &-à to Wnceaify Piuc Wuîcrhouse from aay awuds or judgmm
fbr dSm qcà incling in-aim and cos arising ou% of or la any way reiaîed ta the
execurion et the maedate desoeibcd in titis ktue.
Price Waterbouse shal trec di information Uwa k lreivou i
a sticUy
coniidentiai manner and Ùw.» nôt comment on or relems an> Wonto
or fs report
to AnY uli withOUI th. exPres writîen authorization Of CPC- NOrWùutaiddîq the
foregoinigand sijcs Io prict coasulting wiriz CPr. Price Waterboute &hall hove &hC
right te cornt on any mnaterial public mismprestatatioa of the. contents of fis report
that compromis.a it2 intcgry.
.Price Waterhouse shaIh invoice CPC for te examination. inctuding any workc
&MsidCsL relae tri the derence of iu report, based open the tirnc dcvw~u to The
assignmenm nt rates cuswMary for suxh assigTImafts. Prie Wawdzovse wl l m 6e
rcimb..ricd ils cuwmarv travel and other out-ot.pockc: cxx=
including. ini
consultation with CPC, the cogs of aay spcu-l adviscrs enemgcd to £Ssict prie*
Watethoux ti conaectjo witli the examininaon or deferice themot CPC confi=u that
it will pay any sueit invoices or othtt char;cs upon thcà :cc*pl.
Eiher CPC or Fnc-. Wa=cho=s shail have t right te tcrngc titis
exa.mination upon 24 houri iitten awisice a: which lie Price waterbeuc shI' if
reqccsued. retum copies ofral documnents related Iothe CPC Jeas. a.nd the Cxasniation
in lu Possession, l the ic.=t
or LItS oaly lemninof
et examinaljon Price
WmtcthOuse shah bc entidcd to bc tully paid for ils lime and oti.et charges up go the
ccpir.y or the niee period, as wehi as, in cons ultationi wnhb CPC, for lime anid cost5
re=snablY incurnd sub.qeqttcnily iniderence of ils exzrnination and. uF applicable. draft
or othe, reports.
CPC agrets thi mny chantes to tbe SCO9C of the mnda&t efipnbed here'n thall
bc cOmmunicated by CPC to Price Waterizouse ini wri:ing &rd shal! be cov.ed by the
lemns ofthis Itefi Cf engâgement.

Pg&c 'j of 3

JUly 24, 199',
,urlcc Wat:rhouse

Shotild vou bc in a&:CtracuL with the Lerms of this tcuer, kindly çig.i~w
original copie.%nf rhis lette: and ratum anc originâi siju'xi copy to crC at youz c2rIcst
Yours vcry tmay,

for Cana~da Pott Corporationi

AckinwIeiged and agreed ýo is dayQfLerT-u1I

for price

195'~ liv Prce Waterhousc.

2087

THE SENATE
Wednesday, October 4, 1995
The Senate met at 1:30 p.m., the Speaker in the Chair.
Prayers.

SENATORS' STATEMENTS
THE LATE RIGHT HONOURABLE
JOHN GEORGE DIEFENBAKER
ONE HUNDREDTH ANNIVERSARY 0F BIRTHDAY

Hon. David Tkachuk: Honourable senators, 1 rise today
because I arn slightly intrigued and always amazed at the life of
John George Diefenbaker. He was born on September 18,
100 years ago.
1 can stili see him - as 1 arn sure rnany of you can - as if it
were yesterday. I heard hirn speak at the 1974 Progressive
Conservative Convention. 1 rernember it well. It was held in the
Adamn Ballroorn of the Bessborough Hotel in Saskatoon.
Hours earlier, I had been formally introduced to him for the
firsi time. He stated to me that 1 write a very good letter. 1 had
written to him some three or four months earlier outlining to hirn
why 1 thought it was important for him to corne to Saskatchewan
and speak at our convention. 1 thought we could really win in
that province. 0f course, in 1974, this was not sornething that
one could easily believe.
Mr. Diefenbaker looked very old and tired, and he could flot
hear well. At the banquet table that night, he looked down, flot at
us but down at his lap and at the floor. I thought we would be in
for a bad night, because 1 thought he was human. 1 do flot
remernber who introduced hirn, but 1 rernember him rising slowly
with his back arched forward. He was flot stooped over, just
straight. He placed bis papers on the lectemn, flot like rnany of
today's politicians with their neatly typed papers, and then he
started.
His eyes transformed him. Ail of a sudden, he became very
young to us. As a matter of fact, he looked as young as we did,
and as strong. He was bold, irreverent and funny. When he sat
down, he Iooked old again.
With Mr. Diefenbaker, the line in the sand was always drawn.
1 have concluded that he is remembered for what he said, and,
yes, how he said it. He loved to take on the Liberals, Otto Lang
and Pierre Trudeau. However, after Bennett and King and
St. Laurent, onto the spotlight came Diefenbaker. 1-e was
different, excltlng and charisrnatic. He was a populist. He was
eloquent in contrast to ail those around hirn and irnmediately
before hirn.
People filled arenas by the thousands. and politics became
personal. Many of us became involved in politics because of him
-l'or

hlm or against hirn-

no douhi because of him.

Diefenbaker liked to say that he opened
Conservative Party and made everyone feel
he really opened up ail parties. While there
in politics before, he was the first national
Prime Minister.

Up the Progressive

welcome. However,
have been populists
populist to, become

To put his vision in perspective, there are those views that are
well known: the expansion of the north, the profiling of western
agriculture, and the bill of rights. However. years ago, I retrieved
frorn the library his manifesto from the 1938 provincial election,
when he was Leader of the Conservative Party in Saskatchewan.
I will quote a couple of lines from it, honourable senators,
because they are interesting.
In that 1938 manifesto
Diefenbaker stated:

-

most of which he penned himself-

The Conservative Party pledges itself to increase grants to
expectant mothers.
The Conservative Party approves of the need for health
insurance, state medicine and hospitalization. and
undertakes to fully investigate the various forms thereof..
The Conservative Party pledges itself to:
(1) The extension of public health services to combat
cancer, mental and other degenerative diseases;
(2) The establishment of child guidance clinics;
(3) The provision of facilities to permit periodical
medical examination of ai individuals over the age of
35 years.
The Conservative Party pledges itself to the adoption of a
systern of contributory unemployment insurance.
The social policy, combined with his strong support of
individual liberty and free enterprise, laid a new foundation for
our party. If only Diefenbaker could hear Dalton Camp today!
The irony is that he is speaking through Dalton Camp today;
Dalton just does flot know it!
Mr. Diefenbaker also said that it seerns the more things stay
the same, the longer you are in politics. I will quote from that
1938 manifesto - and if 1 arn running out of time, perhaps
honourable senators wîll excuse me. That manifesto stated:
(A) By making substantial reductions in the salaries of
cabinet ministers;
(B) By reducing the number of the members of the
cabinet.
(C) Bv reducing the number of the members of the
legislature;

(D) By making substantial reductions in the salaries of the
bigber paid civil servants;
By coordinating to a greater degree the various
(E)
departments of the government;
(F) By coordinating to a greater degree the services
rendered in Saskatchewan by botb the federal and provincial
goverfiments. thus preventirig overlapping and duplication
and making possible the giving of the same services with
the elimination of many travelling inspectors;
(G) By eliminating unnecessary boards and commissions,
thereby placing public administration in the hands of bodies
responsible to the people.
Incidentally. honourable senators, he lost that election.
John Diefenbaker appealed to Canadians. and to him there
were no bypbenated Canadians. Being of German ancestry, be
did flot ask Germans to support him because he was a German.
He would consider it unbecoming to play upon that. He reacbed
out to Jews, Ukrainians and aboriginal peoples. flot to give tbem
a special place but simply an equal place in Canada.
It was be who stood alone against apartheid. There were no
black votes to be won in Canada. He stood against the policies of
the governiment of South Africa because, after aIl, those policies
were un-Canadian: there were just flot right. That was bis
paradox: the welcoming of Canadians into the political process.
bis joy around people and before audiences, bis strength and. at
the same time, to the seemingly less than collegial way of
operating, a loner wbo saw demons around bim but was neyer
afraid to face themn alone. This same supposed weakness in
administration was the tbing that gave him strength wben il came
to buman rigbts and natural justice.
Diefenbaker loved Canada unabasbedly, unswervingly and
undeniably - and this bolds more meaning today in Canada in
ligbt of wbat is happening in our neighbouring province of
Quebec. To bim. tbere were no parts that be loved more than. or
to the exclusion of, any other. He had wbat we migbt caîl today
unconditional love for bis country, and be accepted the wbole of
bis country, despite aIl its faults.
He is laid to rest, with Olive at bis side, on the banks of the
South Saskatchewan River at the University of Saskatchewan,
and alone as always. There is flot another beadstone for miles. He
was a man of this earth, be gave mucb more than he took from it.
That should be said of aIl of us.

Hon. H. A. Oison: Honourable senators, the Rigbt
Honourable John George Diefenbaker was an interesting person.
to put it mildly. I bad a great admiration l'or some of bis
characteristies. I probably got better personally acquainted witb
bim than most members of Parliament. and perbaps even better
than most members of' bis own party, because be and I were in
opposition in the House of Commons for many years - that is.
l'rom 1963 until approximately 1967. That is the year he lost the
election to Pearson.
1 Was SWcpt Out Of' Office iii the landslide of' 19,58. together
\vith cx cry other menmhcî of' niy part\ . alinost aIlI the niembhers ol'

1Sciiaior Tkac.hu k

1

what was then the CCF party, and most of the Liberals. too. The
Conservatives under Diefenbaker won the highest rnajority in
Canadian history up to that time. being 208 members.
However. there is a lesson to be learnt bere. Since that time.
Prime Minister Mulroney received a higher maýjority. but when
be was swept out of office, it was with a majority that was even
higher. At that time. the Conservatives who had been in office
were ail swept out but one, plus a member from Saint John who
had previously flot been in Parliament.
Mr. Diefenbaker wilI be recorded as being one of the great
personalities in Canadian history. There is no question in rny
mind about that. To say that he had a good political philosophy is
wrong. in my view - or at least 1 did flot agree with it. It is a
philosophy that has caused me a great deal ot trouble throughout
much of my political career. In retrospect, 1 amrnfot sure that.
politically, Mr. Diefenbaker's administrative policy was good for
Canada. Yet, I hold a very warm feeling towards him because 1
know that he was striving to establish a government that would
be responsive to some of the things that Senator Tkachuk bas just
been talking about. 1 do flot know what you would caîl them
either pink Conservatives, Ieft-wing Conservatives. or wbatever.
He certainly was flot a right-winger. Senator Tkachuk made that
point. and 1 agree with it.
Then when the Liberals were in office, 1 was a member of the
Social Credit Party at the time. and we were in opposition. John
Diefenbaker and I sat very close to each other because. for a
while. the Social Credit Party had more members than the CCF
or the NDR, so we were the next party in fine. At that time, 1 bad
a great deal to do with Mr. Diefienbaker. 1 talked to him a lot.
Among other things. 1 admired the kind of personal relationship
that he could develop with other members of Parliament.
He said many times. "I arn a House of Commons man"
everyone in the Conservative Party wiII have beard that - and
he certainly was that. He loved the place. He loved the cut and
thrust of what went on there. He was probably the best debater or
"House of Commons man" wbo has ever been a member of that
chamber. He was certainly an excellent Leader of the Opposition.
The opposition's job is to probe the government's policies, its
legislative program, and everything else on which the
goverfiment should be accountable to the people. He was one ot
the best. and maybe the very best leader wbo could bring that
out. 1 admired that. because there was a time when that was sort
of my job. too -even in this house. 1 did flot do it wel. but I
tried. He did it very well when he tried.
My tbree minutes are probably up, but 1 wanted to get that on
the record. 1 knew him very well. I admired him.
1 have one furtber memory of' him. In the 1965 election. the
local Progressive Conservative Party in the Medicine Hat
constituency made several, almost desperate. pleading requests to
Mr. Diefenbaker to corne to Medicine Hat to campaign. 1 know
that be told tbem. "No. 1 will flot carnpaign against Oison. I think
he probably should be re elected.- And of course 1 was. That was
the only time wben everyone else wbo ran for office lost their
I
deposit. except ie. Most of the tiie 1C 'as the oîie wxho \vas

October 4, 1995

October 4, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

2089
2089

SENATE DEBATES

always hanging on by the skin of my teeth, if you know what I
mean. Mr. Diefenbaker told me before I left Parliament that he
would not campaign against me, and he did not. I never had any
trouble with the Liberais; it was the Conservatives who were
breathing down my neck all the time!
Senator Di Nino: And still are!
Senator Olson: Yes, they still are. Diefenbaker was a man
with whom every one of you would have enjoyed having a
personal relationship. I know that I did.
[Later]

Hon. Len Marchand: Honourable senators, I should like to
say a few words about John Diefenbaker, because he made a big
difference in my life. He brought about the most fundamental
change for my people of this century: He gave us the federal vote
in 1960. What could be more fundamental than getting the vote?
I have some very personal memories with respect to that. I was
27 years old before I was allowed to vote in this great and
wonderful land of ours. In 1958, during the big "follow John"
time, I was attending university in British Columbia. My
landlady, who was a fighter for rights, put me on the voters' list.
I said, "Oh my gosh, you can't do that." I was very worried about
it because I knew that my vote would be illegal. She said, "To
hell with it, vote anyway. It should be the right of every person in
this land to vote." She talked me into voting and I did so. I did
not vote Conservative. I was always a Liberal, even though John
later gave us the vote.

chamber. John Diefenbaker was there. I paid tribute to him at that
time. I thanked him for allowing my people to vote in federal
elections. He was most appreciative of my comments to him and
wrote me a note to that effect. To this day, I have that note; it is
one of my little treasures.
He also took me under his wing in a way. He was very
friendly. He saw me doing a television interview one time. I
tended to speak a little too quickly at the time; perhaps I still do.
I spoke quickly in that television interview. The next day, he
walked across the House of Commons floor and said to me,
"Young man, I have a little bit of advice for you. You speak too
quickly. You have to slow down just a little bit. What you had to
say was not bad, for a Liberal, but you have to slow down a bit."
Honourable senators, I thank you for allowing me to take these
few minutes to make these remarks. I thought it appropriate to
make these few comments. I, for one, appreciate what he did in
giving my people the federal vote. It was a real turning point
for us.

[Translation]

FRANCOPHONES OUTSIDE QUEBEC
THE REFERENDUM-A REMINDER OF THE URGENT NEED
FOR A PARTNERSHIP WITH THE PROVINCE

Senator Doody: No, you had nightmares because you
voted Liberal!

Hon. Jean-Robert Gauthier: Honourable senators,
francophones outside Quebec remember the nice promises made
by the PQ government and the Bloc Québécois before the
referendum was called, when they talked about the urgent need
for a new partnership with the francophone and Acadian
communities.

Senator Marchand: In my nightmares, a policeman would
come to my door and say, "Hey, Indian, you voted in this
election. You knew damned well you were not supposed to vote.
You broke the law."

They must think we are very naive or desperate in trying to
convince us that, in the aftermath of a Yes vote, the Parti
Québécois would look after the interests of their fellow
francophones from the rest.of Canada.

However, it was a great turning point in my life. At the start of
my political career, I worked with the American Indian
Brotherhood. One of our goals was to get the federal vote.

The referendum has not been held yet, but we have already
been relegated to the international francophone community. A
few mystics even refuse to see us as a segment of Canadian
society. According to Quebec's declaration of sovereignty
released in the Grand Théâtre de Québec on September 6, 1995,
we, the French Canadians from the rest of Canada, are part of
this international community in the eyes of these PQ members.

I had nightmares for a while as a resuit of voting in
that election.

I do not know how people in this great land of ours could do
such stupid things. We have historically done stupid things,
especially to my people.
As I said, that was a turning point. However, everything is not
rosy in our lives at this time. On a daily basis, we read in
newspapers about things that are going wrong all across the
country. Things did improve, however. Getting the federal vote
was a turning point for us. We are at least able to be a part of the
process. Our votes now count, like those of everyone else.
After my election to the House of Commons in 1968, Senator
Corbin moved the Address in Reply to the Speech from the
Throne. a motion which I seconded. I think that was, perhaps, the
one and only time that everyone was in attendance in the

As for the bill on Quebec's future, it does not mention us at all.
There is no reference to the fact that we even exist.
We, who have been forgotten by the Parti Québécois, the Bloc
Québécois and the Action Démocratique du Québec, wish to
point out that the francophone and Acadian communities do exist
and that our allegiance is to Canada.
We ask our brothers and sisters in Quebec to vote No in the
referendum because Canada. despite its flaws, deserves to be
saved.

NEW BRUNSWICK

[Eiiglisl

LIBERAL VIUVORY IN PROVINCIAt, ELECTION

STATUS 0F WOMEN
TWENTY FIFFH ANNIVERSARY 0F TABLINO
OF~ REPORT OF ROYAL COMMISSION

Hon. Sharon Carstairs: Honourable senaturs. 1 should like tu
take this opportunity to draw your attention to the fact that last
Thursday. September 28. was the 25th anniversary of the tabling
of the report of the Royal Commission on the Status of Women.
The report made 167 recommendations, based upon the
followingy principles: That women should be free to choose
whether or not to take employment outside the home; that the
care of children is a responsibility to be shared by the mother. the
father and society; that society has a responsibility toward
women because of pregnancy and child birth. and that speciai
treatunent related to maternity shaîl always be necessary; and that
in certain areas. women will, for an interim period, require
special treatment to overcome the adverse ettects ot
discriminatory practices.
Women have achieved a great deal in Canada in the fast
25 years. In 1978. the Canadian Labour Code was amended so
that pregnancy was no longer considered to be a basis for
dismissal. In 1982, the Canadian Charter of Rights and
Freedoms. section 28, ensured that the Charter applied equaliy to
aIl men and women in this country. I11 1983. the Canadian
Human Rights Act was amended to prohibit sexual harassment
and ban discrimination on the basis of pregnancy or marital
status. In 1986. the Employment Equity Act was introduced. In
1993. Canada had its first woman Prime Minister. This was
preceded by the achievements of women as Leaders of the
Opposition, as premiers and as leaders ot national and provincial
political parties. In 1995. the federal governunent adopted the
concept of gender-based analysis of legislation and policies.

Hon. John G. Bryden: Honourable senators. 1 should like to
draw your attention to the fact that whiie most of you were
enjoying a well earned summer break. Senator Simard and 1 were
engaged in a somewhat partisan contest in the Province of' New
Brunswick. During that tîme. in his own inimitable fashion,
Senator Simard referred to, Frank McKenna and I as two puppies
who had made a mess and should have our noses rubbed in it.
1 was reminded of that reckless prediction on September Il.
The people of New Brunswick presented us with a beautiful
bouquet of 48 red roses. The premier and 1 rubbed our noses in
theun and the fragrance will stay with us for the next four years.

ROUTINE PROCEEDINGS
GUN CONTROL, LEGISLATION
PRESENTATION 0F PETITIONS

Hon. John Lynch-Staunton (Leader of the Opposition):
Honourable senators. 1 have a number of petitions regarding
Bill C-68. The first petition is signed by 24 citizens of Ontario;
the second is signed by 25 citizens of Ontario; the third is ,igned
by 52 citizens of Saskatchewan. Ail of these Canadian citizens
express their opposition to Bill C-68 and ask that it not be
proceeded with.
Lest honourable senators think 1 arn starting a GST petition
round, 1 have another petition signed by 50 residents of British
Columbia who are in favour ot tough new gun control
legislation.

However. honourable senators. there are still obstacles which
must be surmounted. A 1993 Statistics Canada survey found that
51 per cent of ail women had experienced at least one incident of
physical and sexuai violence in their adult lives. In 1992, we
learned that 92 per cent of victims in cases of spousal assault
were female and that 93 per cent of the accused were male.

Hon. Brenda Robertson: Honourable senators. 1 have a
petition signed by approximately 40 citizens of British Columbia.
These petitioners implore ail members of Parliament to support
the passage of tough new gun control legislation.

In 1991. Statistics Canada reported that three out of l'ive
lone-parent lamilies were headed by women and that they had
incomes below the low-income cutoff.

QUESTION PERIOD

The need for quality and affordable child care spaces far
outstnips their availability across this country. Women continue
to spend more hours doing unpaid work than men. Even when
employed. women still invest one to two more hours per day than
men doing unpaid work.

PENSIONS 0F ROUTE CANADA EMPLOYEES-DEIAY IN
RESOLUTION 0F DISPUTE-STATUS 0F NEGOTIATIONSGOVERNMENT RESPONSE

The 1992 Statistics Canada figures indicated that wornen with
fuil-time jobs made 71 .8 per cent of the average earnings oU their
maie couniterparts.
Honourabie senators. let LISContinue (0 '.Work t0'.'. ard equýility
tor- all people in Canada.

TRANSPORT

Hon. J. Michael Forrestall: Honourable senators. in the near
future I hope it will no longer be necessary for me to raise the
question of' Route Canada and iLs emnployees. The Minister of
Transport appeared hetère the Transport Conmittee last June
whiie w~e wsere exarninin- Bill C-89. and somne documentation
vvas pro\ îded to us at that ti ne. It was our impression that ail
penlsion1 henet it entitlemients and sev.erances had heen paid in li!I
to fornmer ernplov es o! Route Canada.

SENATE DEBATES

October 4, 1995

As honourable senators may be aware, one day last summer a
number of the constituency offices of Liberal MPs were occupied
by former Route Canada employees. They were demanding
compensation and a parliamentary inquiry into this issue.
George Rideout, the member of Parliament for Moncton,
appeared to be in agreement when he stated, "There is no
question that they got shafted," meaning the Route Canada
employees.
Does the
whatsoever
government
government

Leader of the Government have any information
with respect to these negotiations? As far as the
is concerned, are the negotiations complete or is the
no longer interested in dealing with these people?

In other words, will the Leader of the Government indicate
whether or not, as a result of the events of last June, the matter
has been dealt with completely, or do these actions by former
employees signal a contrary view to that of the Government of
Canada on this matter?
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, I am certainly aware of Senator Forrestall's
interest in this issue. I will inform myself further today and
provide him with an answer.
HUMAN RIGHTS
RATIFICATION OF HUMAN RIGHTS CONVENTION
OF ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATESGOVERNMENT POSITION-DELAYED ANSWER

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, yesterday, Senator Kinsella asked a
question of me concerning the Human Rights Convention of the
Organization of American States. I wish to indicate to him that,
in consultation with the provinces and territories, Canada is
continuing its legislative review, with the prospect of acceding to
the convention at the earliest possible time. It is precisely
because Canada takes seriously its international human rights
obligations that we are giving careful consideration to the
OAS convention.
Senator Kinsella will know that we continue to play a strong
role within the Organization of American States on this matter. I
want him to know that the issue is very much alive. The hope is
that a conclusion will be reached at an early date.
Hon. Noël A. Kinsella (Acting Deputy Leader of the
Opposition): Honourable senators, I wish to thank the Leader of
the Govemment for that information.
Is the Leader of the Government able to tell us which
provinces, to date, have agreed that Canada should ratify this
convention? It would be interesting for honourable senators to
know what the areas of reservations are with reference to
Canadian ratification of this instrument.
From my reading. there appear to be a number of provisions in
the OAS convention with which some Canadian jurisdictions
have difficulty. I do not know if the federal government falls into
that category. One provision relates to the right to life. and there
are a number of other issues.

This process has been ongoing for three or four years. I
understand that a federal-provincial committee of officials meets
from time to time on the issue. Perhaps it is time that
parliamentarians were given some insight as to what are the
obstacles.
* <1411W

Senator Fairbairn: I shall be glad to pursue that point. I
simply wished to get an initial answer to my honourable friend
quickly. I would also remind my honourable friend that if his
question was a written question, and were on the Order Paper, I
could get him an even faster answer.
THE SENATE
STATUS OF SENATOR KINSELLA

Hon. Jean-Robert Gauthier: Honourable senators,
I apologize to my colleague, but I am not familiar with the
Senate rules. I am more familiar with the House of Commons
rules. Has Senator Kinsella had a promotion? He was speaking
from Senator Berntson's seat. Are we permitted to speak from
any seat in this house? Is it agreeable to ail senators that that
should happen? If so, I should like to know.
Hon. John Lynch-Staunton (Leader of the Opposition):
Honourable senators, I can answer that. It is certainly not out of
order to ask at this time. The leadership on the Liberal side was
advised that Senator Berntson is leaving soon on an official
mission with the Speaker. Senator Kinsella will be replacing him
temporarily, and Senator DeWare will be acting as whip on our
side. It is not unusual to have these changes take place, and next
time we will certainly publicize it more.
DELAYED ANSWER TO ORAL QUESTION
Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourable senators, I have a response to a
question raised in the Senate on June 13, 1995, by the
Honourable Senator Forrestall regarding the First Canadian
Mechanized Brigade.
NATIONAL DEFENCE
PEACEKEEPING IN BOSNIA-REQUEST FOR
PARLIAMENTARY DEBATE ON INCREASE IN SIZE
OF FORCE-GOVERNMENT POSITION

(Response to question raised by Hon. J. Michael Forrestallon
June 13, 1995)

The 1Canadian Mechanized Brigade Group (l CMBG) is
not currently on standby for any specific NATO
deployment. Essentially, each of the three mechanized
brigade groups within Land Force Command has the same
mission. that is: to maintain a general purpose combat
capability to provide operationally effective forces. to.
amongst others. assigned NATO and international
commitments and UN missions.

The specific tasks associated within this overali mission
are rotated amongst the brigade groups at regular intervals
(generally on a yearly basis). In November of this year.
1 Canadian Mechanized Brigade Croup will take over the
UN task for 5 Groupe-Brigade mécanisé du Canada based in
Valcartier. Québec, and bas earmarked one of ils infantry
units (2nd Battalion. Princess Patricia's Canadian Light
Infantry) for deployment with IJNPROFOR in Bosnia. as
part of a normal rotation of Canadian troops. Additionally.
2 Canadian Mechanized Brigade Croup based in Petawawa,
Ontario, bas been assigned the task. and has just completed
Exercise VENOM STRIKE in Gagetown, New Brunswick.
This exercise prepared the brigade-group for a possible
NATO task in Bosnia. in support of potential UN
witbdrawal from tbe region.
As to tbe specifics regarding the Naval and Air support
required by the army in a NATO-related deployment, it iS
impossible at tbis point in time. without exact details about
tbe nature of tbe task and governmental guidelines. to
determine tbe size or configuration of tbeir participation.
However. it would be safe to assume tbat Hercules' fligbts
could be required to move personnel and equipment. and
tbat a Canadian support sbip could be of use as a tloating
logistic base in some scenarios.

ANSWER TO ORDER PAPER QUESTION TABLED
BUDGETARY SAVINGS FOR REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT AGENCIES

Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government) tabled tbe answer to Question No. 85 on tbe Order
Paper-by Senator Tkacbuk.

THE SENATE
VALUE 0F INDEPENDENT SENATORS

GOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. Edward M. Lawson: Honourable senators. following
tbe events if yesterday. wben we welcomed four new senators te,
tbe cbamber, tbe numbers now stand at 50 Liberals to
51 Conservatives. In view of tbat situation, will the Leader of tbe
Government in tbe Senate determine from ber colleague
tbe Minister of' Finance tbe current estimated value of
independent senators?
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government): 1 will
give tbat a pass. Senator Lawson.
Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government>: Il is inestimable.

1Senaior

Grahain 1

ORDERS 0F THE DAY
FARM SAFETY
REPORT 0F AGRICULTURE AND FORESTRY COMMITTEEDEBATE ADJOURNEL)

Tbe Senate proceeded to consideration of the nintb report of
the Standing Senate Committee on Agriculture and Forestry.
(Special study on farm safety). tabled in tbe Senate on
Friday. June 30. 1995.
Hon. Dan Hays: Honourable senators, tbe committee wbicb 1
bave tbe privilege of cbairing tabled two reports during tbe
summer montbs, and the report referred to is one of those reports.
1 sbould like to tbank tbose bonourable senators wbo
participated in tbe proceedings of the committee leading up to
tbat report. as well as our clerk and researcb staff from tbe
Library of Parliament.
Honourable senators, farming is considered to be one of tbe
most dangerous occupations in Canada. witb a bigber deatb rate
tban that found in tbe mining or construction industries. Deatbs
and injuries in tbe farming sector involve a proportionately bigb
percentage of tbe young and the elderly. Moreover, agriculture is
tbe only industry wbere. on average. tbere are two fatalities every
week and disabling injuries daily. Cbildren routinely work and
play at tbe work site, and tbe bome is located at tbe work site.
Hazards on tbe farm arise from a number of sources: Cbemical
use on the farm. macbinery operation and repair. noise. tbe
design of farm facilities, and economic and bun1an stress are ail
bazards witb wbicb farmers must live on a daily basis.
Unfortunately. data and information are lacking on many oif titese
hazards. and on tbe exact extent to wbicb they lead to farm
fatalitîes, Inlunies. and illness. While tbere appears to be some
research into a number of tbese areas, it does not appear to be
coordinated. or its results widely disseminated.
Recognizing tbe role tbat tbe Standing Senate Committee on
Agriculture and Forestry could play in contributing to increased
awareness of the issues surrounding farm safety and farm bealtb.
on September 22, 1992, Senator Barootes. tbe tben chairman,
sougbt the Senate's permission for tbe committee to examine
farm safety and farm-related issues. One impetus for tbis interest
was a series of conferences cosponsored by tbe Centre for
Agricultural Medicine at tbe University of Saskatchewan.
Attendees included farmers. academics, government
representatives and otbers witb an interest in tarm bealtb and
safety. including senators.
As a result of tbese conferences and tbe interest expressed in
tbeir subject matter. tbe Canadian Coalition for Agricultural
Salfely and Rural Healtb was formed in June of 1993. Tbe goal of
tbe coalition is to serve as a national communication and
information network and to facilitate collaborative researcb. Tbe
coalition. wbicb was incorporated in July. 1995 and bas its bead
office in Saskatoon. will participate in tbe Canadian Earrn
Macbinery Conlerence to be beld in late October in Prince
Edward Island.

October 4, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

As the committee began its work, it became clear that many
issues needed examination: economic and mental stress,
machinery, chemicals, noise, the design of farm facilities and the
use of personal protective equipment, among others. The
committee decided to begin its work with an examination of
stress and its economic, mental, emotional, and physical
dimensions.
On June 21, 1993, Senator Berntson, the then chairman of the
committee, tabled an interim report entitled: "Farm Stress: Its
Economic Dimensions, Its Human Consequences." The report,
which did not make any recommendations, summarized the
testimony from experts who shared their expertise on the
financial situation in the agricultural industry, and on the mental,
emotional, and physical stresses experienced by farm families
today.
The committee learned that while farm stress can come from
several sources, most witnesses saw unstable and adverse
economic conditions as the most significant in relation to
farmers' health and safety. The committee heard that adverse
economic conditions not only cause stress, often leading to
occupationally linked ili health, but that conditions also make
farmers more susceptible to illness or injury from other hazards.
Adverse economic conditions, both alone and in combination
with other sources of stress, such as fluctuating weather, long
work hours, lack of information, and isolation are linked to the
symptoms of physical and mental ill health. Moreover, adverse
economic conditions affect many choices relevant to health and
safety of farmers. For example, economic conditions may effect
whether machinery having the latest safety devices will be
purchased, and how safely that equipment will be used by a farm
operator who is inattentive because of fatigue. They affect the
decision of whether personal protective equipment will be
purchased for the mixing and application of chemicals, and how
carefully the applicator, worried about inadequately attended
children, concentrates on proper procedures for mixing and use.
They affect the timing of the decision to repair or upgrade the
ventilation system in an animal barn with air quality problems.
Certain avenues of change were highlighted by witnesses.
Related to economic stress, the Farm Debt Review Board and the
Canadian Rural Transition Program initiatives were highlighted.
Education, counselling, research, federal support, and child care
were identified as future actions which might be taken to limit
the effects of mental and emotional stress.
After completing its examination of stress, the committee
turned its attention to the issue of farm machinery, tabling its
report entitled "Farm Machinery: Lost Lives, Lost Limbs" in
June, 1995. Most fatal farm injuries are thought to arise from
machinery use, despite such design changes as roll-over
protection, a reduced number of points where blockages may
occur, and improvements in guard design. In fact, it is estimated
that farm machinery is involved in more that 50 per cent of the
machine-related deaths that occur among all occupations. Quite
apart from the human costs associated with fatalities and injuries
resulting from farm machinery use. productivity and
competitiveness are reduced.

0

2093

142)

Farm machinery is intended to decrease physical labour,
increase productivity, and save time. However, power-driven
machines are, by their nature, potentially dangerous. Each year,
an estimated 150 to 200 people are killed in Canada as a result of
farm-related accidents; more than half of farm fatalities are
predicted to be the result of machinery, either because of how the
machinery was designed or how it was operated. Among the
most dangerous farm machinery are tractors, round balers, grain
augers and power-drive shafts.
The committee learned that the exact extent to which the
operation of farm machinery contributes to fatalities and injuries
cannot be accurately determined, although data sources may
include records from the provincial Workers' Compensation
Board, coroners' records, hospital discharge data or a direct
survey of farmers. However, these data sources are not without
their problems, since Workers' Compensation Board data is
incomplete and hospital discharge data may code the injury as
having occurred at the individual's place of residence, rather than
on the farm. One witness told the committee that, in his opinion,
for each fatality there are at least 11 hospital admissions and
300 non-fatal injuries, and the vast majority of these injuries
occurring on farms are not reported to any agency.
Honourable senators, whatever the actual numbers, the
costs - human, hospital, lost time, structure modification and
rehabilitation - of farm machinery-related fatalities and injuries
are estimated to be extremely high. Looking merely at hospital
costs, the committee was informed by one witness that an
Ontario study of farm injuries estimated that the annual direct
costs associated with hospital admissions are about $3 million in
that province; this prediction assumed 250 to 300 farm injuries
per year in Ontario, and costs of about $10,000 per injury.
Clearly, a case can be made for prevention.
In seeking to determine the causes of machinery-related
fatalities and injuries, the committee learned that some are
related to the operator of the machinery, while others are
associated with the very nature of the machinery. In particular,
fatalities and injuries may occur because the farmer is too busy to
attend seminars; removes safety shields or guards for adjustment
or repair and does not take the time to reattach them; works when
fatigued or inattentive; works too quickly and cuts corners; is
careless; makes errors in judgment; or does not take the time to
learn the correct operating procedure for new equipment with
new controls. Furthermore, much of the machinery is, by its very
nature, dangerous. Danger may be even greater with older
machinery or machinery that is bought second-hand, since it may
lack safety devices and decals.
Honourable senators, the problem has been identified:
unacceptable loss of life and costs associated with farm
machinery-related fatalities and injuries, whether due to theds
operator or the machinery itself. The question becomes: How can
the incidence of fatalities and injuries be reduced? The answer
lies in changes to both the manner in which farmers use the
machines and in the machines themselves.

It was from that perspective that the committee heard
suggestions by witnesses and formulated recommendations
designed to meet the goal of reduced fatalities and injuries
associated with the use of farm machinery. The committee
received a great deal of testimony about the critical need to
educate farmers and farm families. in various and appropriate
formats, about the hazards of using farm machinery and the
proper methods for doing so. with particular emphasis on the
delivery of education to children. the older population and farm
women. In recognizing the importance of education as a means
of lowering the incidence of farm machinery-related fatalities
and injuries, the committee recommended that all stakeholders
develop an effective education strategy, properly targeted and
with a variety of formalities.
The design of machinery must also be examined. However, to
ensure the safest possible design, one witness suggested to the
committee that design changes are more effective than
educational or legislative measures in reducing the fatalities and
injuries associated with the use of equipment. This witness
recommended that, to ensure their effectiveness, these design
changes be engineered and tested in a pilot program. Only then
should they be implemented across the board. However, another
witness told the committee that manufacturers may be reluctant
to add costs to machinery for a device not required by law, since
that might place them in an uncompetitive position. A number of
witnesses pointed out that new farm machinery is becoming
safer, that some equipment has shields and guards that are
hinged, are easy to replace, or fold up and out of the way to
adjust the machine; they also noted that standards are being
developed in a number of areas and that research is being donc to
further enhance safety. Nevertheless, it is still the case that the
farm operator must operate the machinery as intended: he or she
must replace any guards or shields moved or removed for repairs,
and must read and abide by the proper operating instructions, as
outlined by the manufacturer.
[Translation]
The committee made recommendations on the design of farm
machinery, on composite standards and on regulations.
The committee recommended that farm machinery
manufacturers continue to do research on how to improve the
safety of farm machinery and to participate in the development
and implementation of farm-related safety standards.
Standards already exist. but manufacturers are not always
aware of them and do not know which ones apply specifically to
them. That is why the committee supports one witness'
recommendation that a centralized national directory of standards
be created.
[En glish]
Furthermore, the committee learned that some provinces have
statutory farm-related equipment standards. In particular, the
committee heard about the Ontario Farm Implements Act. which
regulates the sale of farm implements and authorizes the Ontario

I Senator Hays j

Farm Implements Board to establish and enforce farm safety
requirements and standards for farm implements sold in Ontario.
The Hon. the Speaker: Senator Hays, I regret to inform you
that your time has expired.
Honourable senators, is leave granted to allow Senator Hays to
continue?

Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Senator Hays: One witness recommended that all provinces
establish regulations or guidelines on the safety requirements of
new and used farm machinery. In supporting this witness'
position and recognizing that legislation has a role to play in
ensuring the safety of farm machinery. the committee
recommended that provincial governments be encouraged to
adopt legislation related to new and used farn equipment and
that, to the extent possible, legislation be harmonized across
provinces.
A number of witnesses mentioned to the committee the
particular hazards associated with the operation of used
machinery. In fact. the committee was told that many farmers are
using equipment that is perhaps 15 or more years old, some of
which lacks warning decals and up-to-date safety devices.
Moreover. farmers may purchase used equipment because it is
less costly. Although safety devices have been developed for
installation on older machinery, it is costly to retrofit used and
older machinery. Nevertheless, the committee recommended that
farmers using such equipment be encouraged to retrofit their
machinery with the safety devices that have been developed for
this purpose.
|
|Translation
The committee also heard evidence on safety checks carried
out by farmers and their families. These checks could apply to all
farm hazards, including machinery without safety devices or
warning decals, as well as to the comprehensibility of users'
manuals. The committee recognizes that such checks could help
prevent accidents and injuries. Therefore, the committee
recommended that farm families conduct safety checks of farm
hazards including machinery on a regular basis.
[English]
As noted, prevention of such fatalities and injuries must be the
goal. However, if appropriate preventive programs are to be
developed and areas for research identified, accurate data are
needed about machinery-related fatalities and injuries, what
machinery was being used when the accident occurred, under
what conditions, and the type and severity of the injury. From
this perspective, many witnesses stressed the need for accurate
data, and the committee recommended that federal and provincial
governments develop a national injury surveillance system that
would ensure the ongoing collection of data needed to identify
injury patterns and risk factors. The committee believes that data
collection and a national database are critical if progress is to be
made in reducing farm machinery-related fatalities and injuries.

October 4, 1995

0ý

October4,DEBATES
1995SENATE

430)

The committee is confident that many of these initiatives,
working together and in harmony, are needed if there is to be a
reduction in the number and severity of these accidents,
particulariy with respect to fatalities. AIl stakehoiders must
contribute to an integrated farm health and safety strategy if
success is to be achieved.
In conclusion, it is estimated that farmers; are five times more
likely to be killed or suifer disabling injuries than workers in
other major industries. The Canada Safety Council has estimated
that there are approximately 100 accidentai deaths, and more
than 5,000 time-ioss injuries sustained each year by Canadian
farm workers. The rate of accidentai death on the farm is
estimated to be 20 per cent higher than the national average,
making the number of fatalities higher for farming than in any
other industry.
Risks to farm health and safety derive from many sources:
economic stress which often leads to, emotional and physical
stress, chemnicals, machinery noise, the design of farm facilities,
and exposure to such other hazards as dust, gases, et cetera.
Dust-related respiratory problemrs have been found amongst
workers in grain elevators, in animal and poultry confinment
operations, and in many other farm facilities. The use of
chemical pesticides and fertilizers has led to risks of cancer,
neurological disorder and skin problems. Noise in various
aspects of farming has led to noise-induced hearing ioss. Fences,
gates and chutes for animai handling that are not properly
designed or adequate in their construction are the cause of many
fatalities and injuries.
To date, the committee has examined two hazards: stress and
farm machinery. Certainly the other hazards are equally
important, and the committee remains interested in their
examination. The decision as to whether any further study wiIl
occur remains a decîsion to be taken by the committee, following
an examination of its interests and priorities by committee
members; to take place in the near future. In the interim, while
recognizing that farm heaith and safety is a year-round
preoccupation, I draw attention to, the centre in Saskatchewan
which has as its purpose improving the work environment for

2095
29

farmers, and to the Farm Safety Week which wili be heid
March 7 to 13, 1996.
1 thank ail honourable senators who participated in the
hearings ieading up to this report, as weIi as our clerk and
committee staff.
On motion of Senator Kinseila, on behaif of Senator Spivak,
debate adjoumned.
AGRICULTURE AND FORESTRY
CONSIDERATION 0F REPORT 0F COMMI1TEE
ON FACT-FINDING MISSIONS TO WASHINGTON AND WINNIPEG

The Senate proceeded to consideration of the eleventh report
of the Standing Senate Committee on Agriculture and Forestry
entitled: "Agricultural Trade: Report of the Standing Senate
Committee on Agriculture and Forestry's Fact-finding Missions
to Washington and Winnipeg."
On motion of Senator Hays, report placed on Orders of the
Day for consideration at the next sitting of the Senate.
PRIVILEGES, STANDING RULES AND ORDERS
FOURTH REPORT 0F COMMITTEE ADOPTED

The Senate proceeded to consideration of the fourth report of
the Standing Committee on Priviieges, Standing Rules and
Orders (Printing of Minutes and Order Paper), presented in the
Senate on Wednesday, June 28, 1995. - (Honourable Senator
Robe rtson).

Hon. Brenda M. Robertson: Honourable senators, 1 move the
adoption of the report.
The Hon. the Speaker: Is it your pleasure, honourable
senators. to adopt the motion?
Motion agreed to and report adopted.
The Senate adjourned until tomorrow at 2:00 p.m.

TUE SENATE
Thursday, October 5, 1995
The Senate met at 2:00 p.m.. the Speaker in the Chair.
Prayers.

VISITORS IN THE GALLERY
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators. 1 wish te draw
t0 your attention the presence in the gallery of His Excellency
Faisal Abdel Qader AI Husseini, Head of Orient House and Head
of the Steering Committee of the Palestinian Delegation 10 the
Middle East Peace Negotiations.

Hon. Senators: Hear. hear!
THE SENATE
FELICITATIONS TO MR. CHARLES ROBERT
ON HIS APPOINTMENT AS READING CLERK

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, before we
proceed with the daily routine of business. 1 should like te draw
te your attention the presence at the Table of a new Reading
Clerk. Mr. Charles Robert.
Mr. Robert is presently on secondment from the Committees
Branch t0 the Clerk's office as the Clerk's Executivc Assistant.
Mr. Robert's assignment te the Table is the first in a series of
assignments of'committec officers and scnior Senate officiaIs. On
your behaît, 1 wish te welcome Mr. Robert.

Hon. Senators: Hear. hear!

SENATORS' STATEMENTS
THE HONOURABLE GILDAS L. MOLGAT
THE HONOURABLE EDWARD M. LAWSON
TWENTY-FIFTH ANNIVERSARY 0F
APPOINIMENT l'0 THE SENATE

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of' the Government):
Honourable colleagues, I risc today for a very pleasant reason.
that is. te draw attention te a special anniversary for two et our
friends here in the Senate.
Some 25 years ago. perhaps net on this very day but close
enough te it. two of our colleagues. Senator Gil Molgat and
Senator Ed Lawson. wcre appointed te this place. We are
privileged te have had the benefit of thcir counisel. their
participation and their friendship for se many years. We look
lerward te many more.
For 42 years. Senater Molgat has dedicated imisell' te public
lite. w hich bei-an w iîh his 19i5 electien Ie the Manileba

legislature in the riding of Ste. Rose, the youngest MLA in the
history of that province*s legislature. and extends to his
appointment to the Senate in 1970 and to his further appointment
as Speaker of the Senate almost a year ago next month.
He has served Canadians with honour. dignity and warmth. 1
will flot even begin t0 note the time and energy Senator Molgat
has contributed to the Senate, both in this chamber and in its
committees, because they are too numerous 10 mention.
However. he has done it ail. In the process. he has gained the
respect of both sides of this house for his fairness and his
collegiality. for neyer losing touch with us and always making
time to speak and to listen to senators, to staff and Pages alike.
Senator Molgat is an enthusiastie advocate of the Senate, of
the Liberal Party, of' his beloved [egiment the Royal Winnipeg
Rilles, of which he is Honourary Colonel. of his province and of
his country. At the core of his service has been a tireless effort to
foster understanding between Canadians of ail regions, languages
and cultures - the essence of the challenge in which our country
is engaged at this time.
Senator Lawson shares this anniversary. From British
Columbia. he came 10 the Senate in 1970 as a voice f'or organized
labour in Parliament. He has been an active participant in the
Canadian labour movement l'or decades. scrving on the executive
of' the local, the provincial and the international levels of the
Teamsters' Union. Although he certainly has not been in the
public eye in a political sense. as has the Speaker. Senator
Lawson's dedication to his constituency, the labour movement
aI1d the workers in this country is without question.
We have aIl had the benefit of' his wisdom over the years in
dealing with labour law. particularly. and regrcttably.
back-to-work legislation. We hope he will continue 10 give this
chamber the benefit of his wisdom and experience for many
years 10 corne.
Yesterday. in the chamber. he asked me what 1 thought the
current estimated value of an independent senator to be. 1 should
like te assure both Senator Lawson and his colleagues that they
represent a great value t0 us, as they always have in this house.
both 10 the institution itself and to the provinces which they
represent.
On behaîf of senators on this side. 1 extend 10 both of our
colleagues our very best wishes on this important occasion in
their lives in public service.

Hon. Senators: Hear, hear!
Hon. John Lynch-Staunton (Leader of the Opposition):
Heneurable senators. 1 amn dclighted 10 join in nmarking the
1\,\enty-li l'h anniversary ef the appointient te the Senate oft
Sen ateî Moelv at and Sen aloi, Law son.

October 5, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

I first came to know Senator Molgat when he was Deputy
Leader of the Opposition and I was Deputy Leader of the
Government. I learned much from him. I leamed a lot about trust
and confidences, and about how one should behave in an
adversarial system when it came to respecting the system under
which we were both working.
e

-41o)

One thing I certainly learned was that if you did not ask him
the question, he would not give you the answer. I recall that when
I was sitting where Senator Graham is now sitting, Senator
Molgat got up suddenly on a Thursday afternoon, at the most
unexpected of times, and moved an amendment to a bill, which
rather skewered our timetable. The next time we met, I said to
Senator Molgat, "You never told me you were going to move an
amendment." He replied, "You never asked me." Those who are
in such positions should keep that in mind.
I also remember Senator Molgat - not exactly storming the
chair in which he now sits, but certainly challenging it. I am glad
that he did not get too close to it, such that today he would not be
sitting there.
Senator Molgat felt very strongly that we should have an
elected Speaker. It is unfortunate that before he was chosen, we
did not have a chance to elect a Speaker here. Had we done so, I
am sure he would be sitting in the chair as our elected
representative, rather than having been appointed by the
government.
I do not have as many personal comments to make with regard
to Senator Lawson. I have great admiration for independence and
I sometimes feel that I should join him, particularly after his
question to Senator Fairbairn yesterday as to whether she could
determine the value of independent senators.

2097

family in that area, together with his brothers and sisters. From
that family came our man, Senator Ed Lawson.
As the Leader of the Government in the Senate has so adeptly
pointed out, he started off his working life as a truck driver. He
often describes himself as a truck driver with a tie. Believe me,
although he was most likely one of the best truck drivers, his
abilities and contributions go much further than his own
description.
He was the President of the British Columbia Teamsters'
Union. He was the director of the Canadian Conference of
Teamsters, and has been a vice-president of the International
Brotherhood of Teamsters. He has now retired from that position
and has taken up his rightful place in the Senate.
Those onerous duties often kept him from the Senate. On
many occasions he was unfairly criticized for that, although he
was serving the men and women of Canada and all of North
America in his role as head of the teamsters for this country. In
that position he has worked with premiers, prime ministers and
presidents to improve the plight of the working men and women
of this country. For that, we all salute him here today, as do they.
Honourable senators, I value Ed as a golf partner, as a
neighbour, as a friend and as a great British Columbian.
However, I believe that his greatest trademark is his
philanthropic work with charities. Both Ed and his wife, Bev,
work tirelessly on charities across North America, making better
lives for the working men and women of this world, for the
children of this world, and for the underprivileged.
I congratulate Senator Lawson and Senator Molgat, and I
appreciate the opportunity to speak about such great men.
[Translation]

Senator Lawson, in the numerical position in which we find
ourselves, I should like to discuss that with you at the earliest
possible opportunity!

[Later]

Hon. Gerry St. Germain: Honourable senators, I too would
like to take this opportunity to congratulate Senators Molgat and
Lawson.

in the Senate. I hope that my friend Senator Lawson, an
independent like myself, will remain so for a long time, and I
hope others will join us. I wish him a long life during which he
will continue a fruitful participation in the proceedings of the
Senate.

Senator Molgat and I both have our roots in Manitoba, where I
was born, and raised for some time. I should like to congratulate
him on the many years of service that he has performed for the
Province of Manitoba and for the country as a whole.
Senator Ed Lawson is now a neighbour of mine. He is a golf
partner, which is very important; he is a friend; he is a British
Columbian and he is a philanthropist. That is only the beginning
of the description of Senator Lawson.
Many of you may not know that he was born in a great place
called Gerald, Saskatchewan. Those of us who carry the name
Gerald have always known that great things would come of
anyone born in Gerald. Saskatchewan.
Senator Lawson then moved to Pouce Coupe in northern
British Columbia. He did not have an easy childhood. He lost his
parents at a very young age and moved to Fort Langley. British
Columbia. in which area we both now live. He was raised by a

Hon. Marcel Prud'homme: Honourable senators, needless to
say, I agree with what was said by the Leader of the Government

To you, Honourable Speaker, an old friend, I offer my sincere
congratulations. I would also ask you to transmit my best wishes
to your wife who has helped us to enhance the atmosphere of
civility in our beloved Senate. I am indeed delighted to hear you
will celebrate your twenty-fifth anniversary on October 10.
WORLD TEACHERS' DAY
Hon. Rose-Marie Losier-Cool: Honourable senators, today I
would like to draw your attention to World Teachers' Day. This
special day was launched in October 1994 by the United Nations
Education, Science and Culture Organization (UNESCO) and the
International Bureau of Education (IBE).
The purpose of this world day is to recognize the enthusiasm
and commitment of teachers as well as the important role they
play in the advancement of education and society in general.

October 5 was proclaimed a special day at the 44th session of
the International Conference on Education in Ceneva in October
1994 by UNESCO Director General Federico Mayor.
Mr. Mayor said at the ime that "teachers are often
underestimated" and -that improving education sbeuld include
impreving the status of teachers."
[En glish]
This international day is to sensitize the public to the
important role wbich ail teachers play in the social, economic
and cultural development of our country and of the world.
[Translation]
In October 1994, the Executive Director of Intergovernmental
Relations for Education, Mr. Robert Harris, expressed bis
satisfaction witb the launcbing of Werld Teachers' Day to
honour. and 1 quote:
.. those who dedicate tbeir lives to the principle that learning
leads to freedom, that education is the life blood ot
democracy.
Honourable senators, being a teacher by profession. 1 would
like te take this opportunity to wish teachers a happy
international day and to tbank tbemn especially l'or their
dedication te the cause ol education.
[En glish]

FAISAL ABDEL QADER AL HUSSEINI

Conference. and, despite Israeli objection to bis role because he
is a resident of Jerusalem, Mr. Husseini became the central figure
in the peace talks that opened the door for direct dialogue
between the PLO and Israel - a long-time wisb of mine along with Dr. Hanan Asbrawi. Dr. Saeb Erakat and Dr. Haidar
Abdel Shafi.
Mr. Husseini turned the Orient House. an old guest bouse in
East Jerusalem, into tbe controversial New Orient House. whicb
became tbe headquarters of the Palestinian delegation te the
peace talks. The Orient House bas become tbe centre of
Palestinian political, social. and civic activities, a development
that outraged the Israeli right and led, in recent montbs, te
campaigns te hamper tbe work and activities of tbe New Orient
House. Nevertheless, the Orient House continues to be the focal
point of Palestinian national activities in Jerusalem. and. in spite
of Israeli pressure, foreign dignitaries continue te visit it and
meet witb Palestinian representatives tbere.
Mr. Husseini is currently a minister-witbout-portfolio in the
Palestinian National Authority, in charge of Jerusalem affairs. He
is also tbe bigbest-ranking Fatab officiai in tbe Jerusalem and
West Bank areas. and a very close aide of' Palestine President
Yasser Arafat.
Mr. Husseini is accompanied today by the new Palestine
representative in Canada, Dr. Baker Abdel Munem. Mr. Maen
Areikat. assistant to Mr. Husseini for North American affairs. and
Dr. Jawad Boulos, ail of wbomn are being well cared for by a
great Canadian businessman, Mr. Shawky Joe Fahel.
Before they go over te tbe House of' Commons. wbere tbey
will receive the same kind of reception. again. 1 join in
welcoming them very warmly te Parliament.

ROI E IN MIDDL E EAST PEACE NEGOTIATIONS

Hon. Marcel Prud'homme: Today we have the honour to
welcome Mr. Faisal Abdel Qader AI Husseini, who was bon in
1940 in Baghdad - and I hope senators will listen to my
cemments to the very end, because part of this may be
controversial. His tather was a very prominent national leader in
the Palestinian struggle against the establishment of Israel in
Palestine. and was killed in 1948 in AI Qastal.

PRIVILEGE
ORAt, NOTICE

Hon. Anne C. Cools: Honourable senaters. I rise te give oral
notice, pursuant te rule 43(7) of the Rides qo'f the Senate of
Canada. and te state that I shaîl raise a question of' privilege later
this afternoon.

Mr. Husseini received bis military and science education in
Cairo, Beirut. Baghdad and Allepo. Syria. He became active in
the Fatah, the largest PLO faction since its founding in 1965. In
the years that lfollowed, he became active against the occupation
and was harassed by the Israeiis who imposed travel bans, jailed
him and put him under house or administrative detention.

Earlier today. pursuant te rule 43(3), 1 gave written notice te
the Clerk of tbe Senate. 1 shaîl ask His Honour tbe Speaker of tbe
Senate te rule on the facts. wbicb I shaîl brielly outline. as te
whetber a prima jàicie case of' breacb of privilege exists. If se
found, 1 arn prepared te move tbe necessary motion.

In 1979, be founded the Arab Studies Society, a research and
data-collecting centre in East Jerusalem. That was closed froni
1987 through 1991, allegedly for anti-Israel propaganda. but was
reopened after international pressure.

SPECIAL, SENATE COMMITTEE
ON PEARSON AIRPORT AGREEMENTS

0

(1420)

Before the start of the Madrid Peace Conference iii October.
1991, Mr. Husseini led a Palestinian delegation which met with
then U.S. Secretarv oI State James Baker to lay the ground l'or
the start of the peace talks between the PL() anid Israel. He was
nanîed head of the Palesti nian teani to the Mliddle East Peace

1 Senator

Lo.,iei Cool 1

Hon. Gerry St. Germain: Honourable senators. 1 risc on a
matter wbicb sbeuld be of great cencerru te ail Canadians wbo
believe in accountability in our democratic society-, that is. the
conflicting statenients provided by tbe Prime Minister. 1 refer te
the testimiony given under oath at the Senate committee on tbe
Pearson Airport Aoreements. and, as well. te questions raised in
botb Houses in Decemiber 1994. Marcb and April oI 1995. and,
,aiaî. on Friday. Septembhei 22. 1995.

October. DEBATES
995SENATE

October 5, 1995

2099
29

The Prime Minister bas responded in a number of ways to
questions concerning a meeting wbich was attended by himself,
Jack Matthews, and his former partner in Lang Michener.
Mr. Paul LaBarge.

Tbe date of the meeting, as stated in Mr. Hession's diary, was
January 17, 1990, witbin a week of Mr. Cbrétien's leadership
announcement of January 23. 1990. Mr. Mattbews. honourable
senators, bas been proven to be rigbt.

Mr. Jack Mattbews, former president of Paxport, testified
under oath before the inquiry on September 21 that be met witb
Mr. Chrétien in late 1989, early 1990. His recollection was that,
at that time, Mr. Chrétien was about to enter the leadership race.
He testified tbat, at that meeting, airport privatization and other
matters were discussed. The date - close t0 Mr. Chrétien's entry
into the Liberal leadership race - was confirmed in a transcript
of a telephone conversation between Mr. LaBarge and
Mr. Mattbews, which transcript was released to the media atter
Mr. Matthews testified at the inquiry.

Tbe Prime Minister owes to ail Canadians and members of
botb Houses an explanation and claritication of this unfortunate
situation.

When this issue was first raised, you will recail that
Mr. Mattbews wrote 10 the members of botb Houses on
March 30, 1995, wherein he expresscd bis wiliingness to testify
at any inquiry, in order to deal witb issues of credibility whicb
were affecting him and otbers.

Hon. Jean-Robert Gauthier: Honourable senators, today we
will be celebrating an historic moment in the life of francopbone
Ontario. Ten years ago, we could do no more tban dream of a
communiîy college of our own, and now today the Prime
Minister of Canada, the Rigbt Honourable Jean Chrétien, will be
officially opening Ontario's first francopbone college.

You will also recaîl tbat, earlier this year, the Prime Minister's
Office agreed that the meeting took place in early 1990. After
some confusion between Mr. LaBarge and the Prime Minister,
and after consultations between tbe two, anotber date was seized
upon - in April 1989.
In îestimony before the Senate committee, following
Mr. Mattbews' testimony, Mr. LaBarge made an effort to
corroborate his version of the facîs surrounding the April 1989
meeting witb tbat of tbe Prime Minister's aibeit revised version.
Mr. LaBarge went on 10 further state, under oatb, tbat he met
witb no clients in January 1990. This bas now been proven to be
untruthful and not supported by the facts.
On August 2 long before tbe issue of the
Chrétien- Mattbe ws meeting surfaced at the committee Senator Bryden - wbo seemed 10 bave an interest in tbe diaries
of the previous president of Paxport, Mr. Ray Hession requested that Mr. Hession's diaries be tabled witb tbe
committee. I point out again that that was on August 2.
Mr. Hession's diaries proved 10 be belpful and useful in the
search for tbe truth. We now bave proof positive that
Mr. LaBarge did meet with Jack Matthews on January 17, 1990,
even thougb he testified under oath that be had met no clients,
and that Mr. Jack Matthews was in Ottawa, just as be testified.
I quote his exact words:
The meeting took place just prior
Mr. Chrétien

10

bim-

-

announcing tbat he was going to run for tbe Liberal
leadersbip. My best guess, because I do not bave books
from tbat time ...is tbaî il happened in December-

-

1989

LA CITÉ COLLÉGIALE
OFFICIAL INAUGURATION

La Cité collégiale was created in 1990 and moved 10 its new
campus afler doubling ils students to 10,000, 3,500 of wbom are
full-time.
There is no doubt whatsoever that la Cité collégiale responds
a community need, and that il will be called upon to play a
lead role for tbe federal government in coordinating
French-language trade training and retraining outside Quebec.
10

This accomplishment bas been made possible by a
$100-million agreement between the federal govemrment and the
Province of Ontario. Altbough il took a great deal of effort to
bring it into tbe world, Ibis college is now tangible proof that
francophones, whether in Quebec or in the rest of Canada, have a
place within the Canadian federation.
[En glish]

ROUTINE PROCEEDINGS
ADJOURNMENT
Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourable senators, with leave of the Senate,
and notwithstanding rule 58(1)(h), 1 move:
That wben the Senate adjourns today, il do stand
adjourned until Tuesday, October 17, 1995 at two o'clock in
the aflemnoon.
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, is leave
granted?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.

-

[Translation]

January of 1990. Tbat's my best recollection of it.

Motion agreed

10.

INCOME TAX ACT
DEDUCTIBILITY 0F FEES FOR STUDENT
ASSOCIATIONS-PRESENTATION

0F PETITIONS

Hon. Dan Hays: Honourable senators. 1 have the privilege of
presenting a petition from students in the Ottawa area requestlng
the deductibility of fees paid to student associations.

GUN CONTROL LEGISLATION
PRESENTATION 0F PETITIONS

Hon. Dan Hays: Honourable senators. I bave the privilege of'
presenting a petition trom British Columbia residents urging that
legislation requiring tbe registration of firearms and more severe
penalties for their misuse be passed.

0

On March 8. the Minister of Health announced that the site
selection process l'or Centres of Excellence for Women's Health
would begin in April. with a cal] f'or letters of intent to bid.
Minister Marleau aiso indicated in the same release that it was
the intent of the govemment to have the submissions reviewed
and an announcement made of' successful applicants in the fali of
this year. To date. 1 believe no announcement has been made.
Could the Leader of the Government find out from the
Minister of Health whetber an announcement will be made this
fal. and whether or flot the national workshop. wbich was held in
Ottawa in April. bas bad iniput into the selection process and the
terms of reference for the centres'?
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, 1 would be pleased to do that.

L43)

Hon. C.erry St. Germain: Honourable senators. I have a
number of petitions regarding Bill C-68. The lirst is signed by
residents of the Northwest Territories and reads as follows:
Wherefore your petitioner humbly prays that your
honourable bouse may be pieased to reconsider the content
of Bill C-68.
Tbey are strongly opposed to the gun control legisiation bill. The
petition is signed by residents of the Northwest Territories from
tbe town of Rae-Edzo and surrounding area. wbicb is just outside
of Yellowknite.
Tbe second petition is signed by bundreds of residents of
Ontario, in particular from Ajax and its surrounding area. Tbey
wisb to draw our attention to, wbat they sec as tlaws in Bill C-68.
They advocate tbe witbdrawal of ail support for Bill C-68.
The final petition is fromt the voters and taxpayers in Dawson
Creek and nortbemn British Columbia. Tbey state that gun control
will not succeed in preventing criminais from acquiring guns by
illegal means. and that Bill C-68 does not address tbe
fundamental principle of problem solving. The bill focuses on
the random many ratber than the significatf few.
Honourable senators. I lay tbese petitions before the Senate on
bebait of these petitioners trom across Canada.

QUESTION PERIOD
HEALTH
CENTRES OF EXCELLENCE FOR WOMEN'S HEALTH OUTCOME 0F
SITE SELECTION PROCESS GOVERNMENT P'OSIT ION

Hon. Janis Johnson: Honourable senators. my question is for
the Leader of' the Government iii the Senate regardine the
Centres of Excellence foi- Womeii's Health.

TRANSPORT
PEARSON AIRPORT AGREEMENTS-EVIDENCE 0F MR. MATTHEWS
BEFORE SENATE COMMITTEF GOVERNMENT POSITION
Hon. Gerry St. Germain: Honourable senators. my question
is directed to the Leader of the Govemment in the Senate. and
refers to my statement regarding the meeting witb Mr. Mattbews
and the Prime Minister. Would the Leader of the Government in
the Senate now ascertain and confirm that the Prime Minister
did. in fact. meet with Mr. Matthews in January of 1990. as
substantiated by Mr. Hession's diary and other evidence given at
the Pearson inquiry'?
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, in answer to a question in tbe other place.
the Prime Minister bas stated that that meeting was held on
April 14 of 1989.

ORDERS 0F TUE DAY
CORRECTIONS AND CONDITIONAL RELEASE ACT
CRIMINAL CODE
CRIMINAL RECORDS ACT
PRISONS AND REFORMATORIES ACT
TRANSFER 0F OFFENDERS ACT
BILL TO AMEND-SECOND READINO

DEBATE ADJOURNED

Hon. Landon Pearson moved the second reading of'
Bill C-45. to amend the Corrections and Conditional Release
Act, the Criminal Code. the Criminal Records Act. the Prisons
and Retorniatories Act and the Transter of Ottenders Act.

October 5, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

She said: Honourable senators, I am pleased to rise today to
introduce second reading of Bill C-45, to amend the Corrections
and Conditional Release Act and related statutes. Bill C-45 is a
key building block of the government's action plan to work for
safe homes and safe streets for all Canadians. The Liberal
government pledged to protect the basic right of all citizens to
live in peaceful and safe communities, and this legislation is
another example of how we are following through on this
commitment.
During the past year, honourable senators, the Liberal
government bas moved forward on crime prevention, on
amendments to the Young Offenders Act and to the Immigration
Act, on sentencing reform, on a new Witness Protection
Program, on DNA evidence, and now on managing high-risk
offenders. Bill C-45 follows through on a Red Book commitment
to improve public protection from repeat sex offenders.
Honourable senators, you have heard members of the other
place suggest on several occasions that our criminal justice
system is ill-equipped to deal effectively with high-risk
offenders, particularly sex offenders. The public has become
increasingly fearful and intolerant of crimes committed by these
offenders, especially when they involve children. This concern is
justifiable; that is why this bill is so important.
Bill C-45 will address these concerns and help restore public
confidence in the corrections process by closing gaps and
responding directly to identified shortcomings in the Corrections
and Conditional Release Act. The bill makes improvement in six
substantive areas.
[Translation]

Honourable senators, first, the provisions on detention
contained in the Corrections and Conditional Release Act have
been tightened up with respect to their application to sexual
offenders preying on children.
In the new proposals, the National Parole Board will be more
able to continue to detain any offender considered likely to
commit a sexual offence involving a child before sentence
expiry. This will be done by doing away with the obligation to
prove "serious harm" has been done to the child to justify
detaining the offender.
[English]

In other words, no longer would there be a requirement to
establish that "serious harm" was caused by the commission of
an offender's current sexual offence, or that "serious harm"
would be caused by a future sexual offence involving a child.
This change is necessary because the effects of sexual abuse on
children are not always readily apparent. This problem is
exacerbated because children are often misled by their molesters
to believe that inappropriate sexual actions are acceptable and
need not be reported. The research evidence also shows that the
actual harm caused to children by sexual abuse may not become
evident until many years later. These problems make it difficult,
if not impossible, to detect serious harm in children.
In ratifying the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child.
Canada has undertaken "to protect the child from all forns of

sexual exploitation and sexual abuse" as detailed in article 34,
and Bill C-45 will close this gap. The National Parole Board will
be given the legal authority it needs to detain any offender
considered likely to commit a sexual offence involving a child
before sentence expiry.
I wish to emphasize, honourable colleagues, that this is a
responsible piece of legislation based on the most recent research
evidence. It was supported by many of the witnesses who
appeared before the parliamentary Standing Committee on
Justice and Legal Affairs during its consideration of Bill C-45. In
particular, clinical experts representing the Canadian
Psychological Association told the committee that the proposa
makes good clinical sense. This is because, and I quote:
...individuals who experience a sexual arousal disorder
towards children, clinically referred to as paedophiles,
represent a much higher risk of re-offending and may not
appear treatable with therapeutic intervention.
By focusing on those offenders who pose the most threat to the
safety and well-being of our children, the bill goes a long way
toward addressing a real concern of Canadians.
I should like to make it clear, however, that this change for
child sexual offenders in no way signals that other sexual
offences are not regarded as serious. All sexual offences,
irrespective of the age or gender of the victim, are of equal
concern to the govemment.
Honourable senators, the measures outlined in this bill are
needed, not because sexual offences against children are
considered to be worse than those against adult victims, but
because the current legislation has proved less effective in these
cases.
0(<14401>

Combined with this change will be improvements in the
availability of treatment for sex offenders in the institution and in
the community. The Correctional Service of Canada and the
National Parole Board will continue to encourage offender
participation in these treatment programs as a requirement for
release consideration.
While we know, for example, that there are some offenders
who cannot ever lead law-abiding lives in the community, we
also know that simply locking up more offenders for longer
periods of time will not achieve the safety of our communities
that we all care about.
I believe that Bill C-45 provides a balanced approach to
criminal justice reform. It makes important reforms that
demonstrate forward movement.

I Translation]
The second key area of improvement in the bill concerns the
credibility and accountability of the National Parole Board. This
issue is a source of both government and public concern. It is
therefore vital that board members be subject to the most
stringent standards of professional behaviour and that they
assume responsibility for decisions which impact directly upon
the safety and well-being of whole communities, as well as upon
victims and their families.
[English]
The bill that is before you will strengthen the accountability of
the National Parole Board by establishing a disciplinary scheme
for board members. This scheme will allow the Solicitor General,
on the recommendation of the chairperson, to appoint a federal
court judge to inquire into the conduct of a board member if it
has fallen below accepted standards. The judge will be able to
recommend remedial action, including dismissal, should cause to
do so be found. The objective of this mechanism is not to punish
board members for cases that have gone wrong despite
everyone's best efforts. Rather, it is designed to establish the
facts where it is alleged that a member is clearly not performing
up to acceptable standards, or that misconduet is suspected, and
to recommend corrective action where necessary.
The third main area of reform in the bill deals with the way
sentences are calculated for offenders serving multiple terms.
Under the current law. it is sometimes possible for an offender,
on conditional release to receive a new sentence of imprisonment
yet remain eligible for immediate parole. Under the new
proposals, an offender on conditional release receiving a new
sentence will automatically have his or her release revoked and
be returned to custody. Where a court imposes a new consecutive
sentence of imprisonment, at least one-third of the new sentence
will have to be served before the offender becomes eligible to be
considered for conditional release. These changes represent a
tightening of the system, which has been recommended by the
law enforcement and corrections communities.

Also. a number of repealed sexual offences will be added to
Schedule I to deal with offenders in the correctional system who
are serving sentencing for these old offences. These changes will
ensure that public safety is not compromised because of
loopholes in the detention legislation.
The fifth area of improvement relates to residency conditions
for certain high-risk offenders who fall short of meeting the
detention criteria. This has been called for by members of the
Standing Committee on Justice and Legal Affairs, the former
Standing Committee on Justice and the Solicitor General, the
Stephenson Inquest Jury in Ontario, and the Canadian Police
Association. In response to these recommendations, the
government brought forward motions to amend the bill during
the committee's clause-by-clause review which was subsequently
endorsed by the House of Commons.
These amendments will enable the National Parole Board to
impose a condition for statutory release requiring an offender to
reside in a community-based residential facility if the offender
does not meet the detention criteria but requires additional
support in the community. This condition will enable the board to
improve the control and management of those offenders, and will
ensure better risk management, provide a more stable structure
for supervisory release, and facilitate community reintegration.
[Translationi
Finally. the bill contains further amendments to the
Corrections and Conditional Release Act and related acts.
One of the key elements of these changes expands the powers
of Correctional Service Canada to deduct a percentage of
inmates' earnings as partial payment for their room and board.
The authority to make such deductions would be expanded to
apply to earnings from work done outside the penitentiary or
work done by an inmate transferred to a half-way house.
[English ]

The fourth area of improvement in the bill relates to
strengthening the schedules in the act by which an offender can
be referred to detention. Detention entails holding an offender in
custody without entitlement to statutory release if the offender is
likely to commit a serious drug offence or an offence causing
death or serious harm before warrant expiry.

Other amendments include clarification of the legislative
intent of various provisions, identification of areas where
agreement on greater integration of federal and provincialterritorial management of offenders bas been reached. and a
number of technical housekeeping changes such as the correction
of discrepancies between the English and French text and
wording changes to ensure consistency of terminology
throughout the act.

Schedules I and Il will now be expanded to include additional
personal violence and serious drug offenses. namely conspiracy
to commit serious drug offenses, serious drinking and driving,
criminal negligence offenses resulting in bodily harm or death,
criminal harassment, and break, enter and commit when the
underlying offence is on Schedule I.

This bill and supporting initiatives respond to the many
concerns of Canadians about our corrections and parole systems.
The result will be a stronger system which provides better
protection for the public through more stringent measures for
serious and repeat ofenders.

The last addition means that an offender who breaks and enters
into a dwelling to commit a serious offence such as sexual
assault will no longer be eligible for accelerated parole review,
and will be included in automatic detention review.

Only by taking a balanced approach to criminal justice reform
can we truly lay the foundations for a safe and secure country
where all Canadians and their children can live free from fear of
violence and molestation.

1 Seialoi

Peairson

j

SENATE DEBATES

October 5, 1995

Because of the strong public interest in seeing these reforms
implemented, I would urge honourable senators to give this bill
the thorough consideration it deserves and then, without undue
delay, give it their approval.
Canadians have been waiting for the reforms contained in this
bill for some time, and I believe those reforms should be put in
place at the earliest opportunity.
On motion of Senator Kinsella, for Senator Balfour, debate
adjourned.
THE ENVIRONMENT AND CONSERVATION
INQUIRY

Hon. Janis Johnson rose pursuant to notice of June 21, 1995:
That she will call the attention of the Senate to the
environment as it relates to environmental conservation.
She said: Honourable senators, I rise today to offer you the
second instalment of my ongoing personal inquiry into the state
of the environment. I call this a personal inquiry because in no
way do I consider myself to be an expert. However, I undertake
this inquiry not only as a senator but as a Canadian citizen who
believes that the issue of environmental degradation is the most
crucial issue facing society today.
•0450)

When I look around this chamber, I see men and women who
enjoy extraordinary privilege and power in Canadian society,
men and women who have provided thoughtful perspectives on
issues as diverse as euthanasia and child poverty. I hope that you
will now consider devoting a portion of your energy, your
wisdorn and your considerable social influence towards the cause
of environmental conservation.
Let me say that my interest in this issue arises out of a
personal concern. I grew up in a lovely part of rural Manitoba, on
the shores of one of the largest lakes in Canada. My neighbours
were farmers and fishermen and country people who relied on
nature's bounty to provide a living for their families and for
themselves. In my own lifetime, I have seen the evidence of
deterioration in Manitoba's lakes, rivers and wildlife. If you were
to look around the area of the country from which you come, I
am sure you would see similar environmental destruction.
Meanwhile, we need only follow the news to observe an
inexorable decline in natural resources around the world. It is not
my intention to belabour anyone with lectures or to waste
anyone's time with doom and gloom prophecies. I hope instead
to undertake a fair-minded analysis of some of these
environmental problems in an effort to determine if there are
rational solutions.
The more I study the so-called environmental crisis, the more
I am struck by the fact that we are not dealing with a terribly
complex, multi-faceted problem. All of the environmental crises
around the world. including our own. are based on the same

2103

stubborn refusal to live within our means. This is the simple
problem and we need to find within ourselves the simple courage
to face that fact.
The natural world seems to operate much like a bank: There is
a certain amount of capital within the system, and we must learn
to live off the interest and leave the principal intact. Historically,
we have behaved as if our resources, and indeed our cash, were
in infinite supply. The time has come, as we approach a new
millennium, to recognize that, just as there are limits to spending,
there are also limits to our natural resources. We simply must
bring our "environmental spending" within sustainable limits. If
we do not, the world we leave to our children and grandchildren
will be one which is environmentally bankrupt.
The idea that our consumption of resources should be kept
within manageable or "sustainable" limits is called the principle
of sustainable development. Sustainable development has
become a popular "buzzphrase" within the global community.
The United Nations has devoted considerable energy towards
achieving long-term sustainability in world development.
Environmental groups tend to view sustainable development
with some cynicism. They argue that governments like to pay lip
service to the idea of sustainable development, but when the
goals of sustainable development are in conflict with short-term
political goals, the environment loses out.
There is some truth to this argument. When I watch the
manner in which commercial development proceeds in my own
part of the country, I see very little importance given to
environmental concems. If, for example, you were a developer
who was planning to build a tourist resort on Lake Winnipeg,
you would spend far more time consulting with bankers,
government bureaucrats, lawyers and accountants than you
would with biologists. However, only a scientist who has studied
the lake, its wildlife and its flora, can honestly assess whether
your tourist resort will permanently damage the local
environment.
I am not suggesting that we should be blockading economic
development; however, the time will come in Canadian society, I
assure you, when environmental concerns will be given as much
attention as financial considerations. We have a long way to go
before we achieve true sustainability in Canadian society. The
journey will not always be an easy one.
Businesses do not ordinarily assign much importance to
environmental concerns; we should not expect them to do so.
These changes will only come through decades of hard-fought
legislation. As senators, we must rest assured of the necessity of
supporting such legislation.
If environmental concerns are continually regarded as optional
niceties, always placed second in line after profits and votes, the
term "sustainable development" will continue to have no
meaning whatsoever.
In essence. I believe that it is appropriate for the Senate to act
as a voice of conscience on the issue of sustainable development.
We can and should provide a sensible non-partisan approach to
environmental matters.

You might ask, when do nature's interests override economics?
Again. the answer is not all that complicated. All natural
populations of fish, trees and wildlife create a surplus every year.
This surplus can be used by consumers such as human beings
without any long-term damage to the resource itself.
In Manitoba. white-tailed deer is an abundant and prolific
species, numbering usually about 100,000 animals. Predators,
including human hunters. harvest about 25 per cent of these deer
every year without reducing the overall population. This can be
seen as the natural "interest" produced by our deer herd. The
reproductive ability of the deer population matches or exceeds
the annual attrition of hunting, road accidents and other factors.
Today, according to our provincial biologists. our deer population
is actually increasing. The Manitoba Ministry of Natural
Resources congratulates itself, in this case at least, for managing
white-tailed deer according to the truc spirit of sustainable use.
How are we doing in other areas? Not so well in the realm of
agriculture. Toxic chemicals are continuing to build up in our soil
and water. Today, 70 per cent of all toxic chemicals used in
Canada are applied by farmers. The agriculture industry applies
millions of kilograms of pesticides every year to the foods that
we eat, but only about one-tenth of 1 per cent of those chemicals
actually reaches the target insects. The rest leaches into the
environment and kills off beneficial insects, fish and important
bird species like the burrowing owl and the peregrine falcon.
Pesticides have also been identified as a potential carcinogen.
One does not need to be a medical researcher to hypothesize that
something which kills insects and fish is probably not the best
substance to sprinkle on your dinner. On the other hand.
hard-pressed farmers argue the need for pesticides to control the
insects which endanger their crops. In cases like this, legislators
are tempted to strike what is usually referred to as a compromise.
With toxic chemicals steadily building up in our lakes and soils,
I doubt that coming generations will admire us for our
mild-mannered approach.
If we agree that the use of massive amounts of pesticides is not
sustainable in the long term, then obviously we must bring down
these amounts to a manageable level. Regulation plays an
important role in environmental management, but so does
research. According to the World Wildlife Fund. Sweden and
other European countries have devised cost-effective strategies
for reducing agriculture pesticide use by 75 per cent. As senators,
we can make a valuable contribution by staying abreast of these
issues and, when it is appropriate, proposing common sense,
long-term solutions.
Our agricultural industry bas also been striving to achieve
better methods of soil conservation. It has been a little over
10 years since Senator Sparrow and his committee released a
farsighted study called "Soils at Risk." Senator Sparrow recently
told me that one of the most difficult aspects of that study was
actually convincing people that soil was an important issue.
Across North America. farmers have been losing millions of tons
of topsoil annually through wind and water erosion, but in 1984.
no one seemed to believe that that was important. Most people
simply do not believe that there is anything very interesting
about soil - that it has no inherent vaIle. It's as cheap as dirt.Or is it?
[ Senatoi Johnson 1

Perhaps the problem is our own woeful ignorance. We take life
for granted. We walk on the soi] every day, but we never stop to
consider its role in our geography, our history. even our existence
as a wealthy western nation. In my own rudimentary studies of
humble elements like water and soil, I have experienced great joy
in discovering how important are these simple components of
life.

For example, let me describe briefly the importance of soil in
the history and the development of Manitoba. Manitoba soil is
about 12,000 years old. It was created in the days after the
glaciers receded when southern Manitoba was only a bleak
wasteland of rock, rubble and rotting ice. In the heat of the
spring. sunlight and rain encouraged the growth of tiny microbes.
As these microbes died by the billions, a thin mould-like fur
grew around the edges of the meltwater. Drifting seeds soon
found root in this vestigial soit. As these plants and grasses
themselves died, the soif began to build up.
With each season a new generation of plant. fish and animals
contributed their decaying bodies to the ever-growing biomass of
the soil. Soon the wetlands became rippling expanses of prairie,
populated by a tall spectacular grass species called "big
bluestem." Emerald green, flashing ocean-blue in the wind, big
bluestem grew thick and tall enough to conceal the buffalo that
migrated through its tangled pathways.
As generations of grass lived and died, and 100 centuries
passed. those deep layers of decayed big bluestem became one of
the most fertile soils on earth - "Red River gumbo."
Soil has all the components of life within it. A cupful of prairie
soil contains the 19 elements required to make a flower, a
galloping buffalo or a Canadian senator. When the minister says
"dust to dust" he is not speaking in metaphor. We are dust. Soil is
life itself. It does not belong to governments or to agri-business
it belongs to the earth. It is our responsibility to conserve it.
Today, honourable senators. Manitoba farmers are harvesting a
bounty that has been 12,000 years in the making. By breaking the
soi with a plough, farmers expose it to wind and water erosion.
After only a century of farming, a substantial portion of our
precious topsoils have dried up and blown away.
However, in the 10 years since the release of the Senate's
report on soi conservation. there have been some encouraging
gains. This is where this institution can continue to play a role. I
certainly hope we will. Farmers are now beginning to adopt
"zero till" farming, which means planting crops without actually
breaking the sod and exposing the soi to erosion. Wetland
conservation is also making strides. Decades ago, too. wetlands
were seen as wastelands. Marshes were drained and swamps
burned so that farmers could use every acre of available land.
Today, through the efforts of agencies such as Ducks
Unlimited and the World Wildlife Fund. farmers are encouraged
to leave wetlands as they are. This is critical because wetlands
stabilize the topsoil and act as filters for water that has been
contaminated with pesticides and fertilizers. Like cananes in a
coalmine, waterfowl are good indicators of the health of the
prairie wetlands. Only 10 years ago. prairie waterfowl numbers
were plummeting at an alarming rate. In the last couple of years,
however, waterfowl populations have begun to stabilize. This is a

October 5, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

good indicator that conservation measures have begun to reverse
a very serious decline in land quality in Western Canada.
Principles of sustainable development can be applied to all
areas of economic activity. If natural topsoil creation is
1.25 millimetres per year, then average soil loss should not
exceed that amount. Again, this is not a complicated matter. The
difficulty lies in finding the courage to live within our means. By
taking more than our share of natural resources, we are in effect
stealing from future generations.

2105

these numbers into net profits of $100 million per year. In return,
Louisiana Pacific will pay the province a grand total of
$1 million per year. The Louisiana Pacific project is a case study,
a classic example of old-style development undertaken for
short-term profits.

As our federal government rushes to devolve its
responsibilities to the private sector, it must be remembered that
governments have the leading role to play in the management
and regulation of our natural resources. The current fiscal crisis
has been caused by 30 years of overspending.

Heavily forested provinces like Manitoba have unlimited
potential for tourism, sustainable logging and other nondestructive industries. However, those in provincial government
must be aware that the public is becoming increasingly distressed
by the contradiction between non-sustainable forest activities on
the one hand and promises to pursue sustainable development on
the other. In this day and age, provinces must be made aware of
their responsibilities in regulating the harvest of natural
resources. Any development of our forests must be carried out in
a modern and sustainable manner.

Overconsumption of our natural resources would be an
extension of the same folly. In the current shake-up between the
government and the private sector, it must always be
remembered that it is primarily the responsibility of government
to manage the environment.

What can we do as senators? This is my second speech on this
subject. I will be giving another one because the subject is so
important to me, but also because I believe that we in this
chamber have the responsibility to inform the Canadian public on
these important matters.

How well are governments currently handling that
responsibility? The federal government is reducing the size of
Environment Canada by approximately 30 per cent. The
provinces are sending out the same signais, that the profit motive
is once again beginning to overpower concern for the
environment.

The Senate has a long and honourable career in lobbying for
wise and sensible legislation that affects the future of Canada. I
implore honourable senators to apply their own considerable
influence to ensure that the government pursues sustainable
development with the same enthusiasm as they use when
referring to it in their press releases. The federal government
must lead the way.

In Manitoba, the provincial government has pegged the
sustainable harvested trees around Swan River at 45,000 cubic
metres per year. This is the government's own figure arrived at
through consultations with provincial foresters. Recently,
however, the province signed a deal with a large multinational
firm called Louisiana Pacific. This firm will manufacture a wood
product called oriented strand board, which will soon replace
plywood as the number one sheeting material for house
construction. The Louisiana Pacific. plant in Swan River,
Manitoba, will be the largest manufacturer of oriented strand
board in the world. This is surely a good news story for
Manitoba. Or is it?

The Hon. the Speaker pro tempore: Honourable senators, if
no other senator wishes to speak, this inquiry is considered
debated.

To close the deal, the province has granted Louisiana Pacific a
licence to cut twice the allowable harvest of aspen, or
90,000 cubic metres per year. Federal wildlife biologists have
said that wildlife populations around Riding Mountain and Duck
Mountain Parks will be severely disrupted by the logging.
Clear-cutting on the steep slopes of the parks will inevitably
cause flooding in the lowland communities as well. Logging will
also encroach on parkland. The World Wildlife Fund is so
concerned that it has downgraded my province from an A to a B
rating in 1993 and to a C this year.
Forestry experts say that Louisiana Pacific's harvest will
grossly exceed the ability of the forest to regenerate itself. Even
from a strict dollars and cents point of view, the deal is
remarkably unattractive.
Ontario charges $6 a cubic metre in provincial stumpage fees.
In Alberta, Louisiana Pacific's rivais pay $6 to $10 in stumpage
fees. Manitoba is giving away twice the allowable yield for $1.17
per cubic metre. Based on market prices for oriented strand
board, industry experts estimate that Louisiana Pacific will turn

QUESTION OF PRIVILEGE
MOTION PURSUANT TO RULE 43

Hon. Anne C. Cools: Honourable senators, I rise today to
raise a question of privilege pursuant to rule 43(1)(a) of the Rules
of the Senate of Canada.I raise this question of privilege and ask
the Speaker of the Senate to rule whether there is a case of prima
facie breach of privilege. I am prepared to move the necessary
motion.
0 (151o)

Honourable senators, it has come to my attention that a
witness who appeared before the Standing Senate Committee on
Legal and Constitutional Affairs on September 20, 1995, has cast
reflections on the Senate and on senators. That witness was
Ms Arlene Chapman, provincial coordinator of the Alberta
Council of Women's Shelters.
In an October 4, 1995 article by staff writer
Michelle Nicholson published in The Edmonton Sun,
Ms Chapman described the Senate committee hearings on
Bill C-68, respecting firearms and other weapons, as a "sham."
Ms Chapman further maligns the members of the committee with
the rude and ugly words. "Well. 'in sorry. but I'm sick of taking
that from those dolts."
Such comments. honourable senators, are indicative of the
views of certain radical feminists who have no respect for the

truth, or for voices other than their own. While the committee
members extended time and due consideration to Ms Chapman to
present her comments and her views, she does not reciprocate
that courtesy to the senators. By her statements, she does herself.
in particular, and women, in general, a great disservice.
Ms Chapman is reported in the article as saying that the
transcripts from our committee hearings indicate that women's
groups are being dismissed.
Honourable senators. it is not unusual for certain radical
feminists to express hostility to any institution, process or person
that is not a prisoner of their own narrow and self-righteous
agenda. They display mean-spiritedness and manipulativeness as
they atteipt to control politicians by using the devices of public
embarrassment and public malignment.
Having made a presentation before our committee that was far
from excellent and not distinguished, it is the height of arrogance
and contempt for Ms Chapman to describe the Senate's hearings
on Bill C-68 as "a sham." Quite personally, my sense of charity
would inhibit me from describing her testimony, lacking though
it was. as a sham. Her carelessness reflects her hostility and does
enormous disservice to the concerns of women who suffer
domestic abuse. Numerous women in this country suffer terribly.
Ms Chapman, and others like herself, claims to speak on
behalf of al] women. Fortunately, honourable senators, they
merely and barely represent a bitter and unhappy minority,
unable and unwilling to participate in a democratic process.
My intention, honourable senators, is to draw your attention to
the mischief of this radical feminist. Her comments in The
Edinonton Sun article demonstrate her contempt for the Senate
and for parliamentary process and make manifest the truc reasons
she appeared before the Senate committee.
If Ms Chapman had feit such disregard for the Senate, it was
surely a waste of her time, as well as that of the senators. to have
testified before the Senate committee. It was also a waste of
taxpayers' money. In this era of fiscal restraint, it is unfortunate
that such resources should have been devoted and utilised on her
appearance before the Senate committee. These resources could
obviously have been better used. The wanton disregard
demonstrated by her comments in the article reveal much. They
reflect candidly on her and her lack of respect for Parliament and
for this chamber.
Honourable senators, I sincerely believe that the behaviour of
those of us who sat on the Senate committee during her
testimony was exemplary. Our behaviour - mine and that of the
other senators present - can stand full scrutiny. It was truly
exemplary behaviour. I work with these men and women.
Her suggestion that the Senate mistreated her during her
appearance before the committee is a flagrant dishonesty,
obviously founded in an active imagination. The suggestion that
the Senate has mistreated her constitutes an act of verbal
aggression and provocation. In addition, such behaviour is an
insult to the people of Canada, especially to the women of
Canada.

1Senator

Cool. 1

Honourable senators. her comments, however, should not deter
the Senate lrom continuing its work on Bill C-68. The Senate
committee should continue its hearings on Bill C-68 and should
continue to listen to Canadians on this issue.
Ms Chapman's bold assertions that the Senate and senators
have abused, mistreated. neglected, dismissed, disregarded and
ignored women. or have refused to hear women's groups, are
blatantly false. These false assertions are libelous and slanderous,
cast reflections on the Senate of Canada, and are a breach of the
privileges of the Parliament of Canada.
About such reflections on the Houses of Parliament as a
whole. Beauchesne. at page 18, tells us that:
Traditionally, articles in the press reflecting badly on the
character of the House have been treated as contempts.
Beauchesne also tells us, on the same page, that the bouses of
Parliament have judged such articles:
...to be a "scandalous, false and malicious libel upon the
honour, integrity and character of this House. and of certain
Members thereof, and a high contempt of the priv ileges and
constitutional authority of this House"...
The intent and spirit of Ms Arlene Chapman's statements are
replicated in some press releases, all dated October 4, 1995.
received by my office this morning. These press releases are
from certain organizations, including the Montreal Assault
Prevention Centre, the Manitoba Action Committee on the Status
of Women, the Canadian Federation of University Women. the
YWCA of Canada, and the Jewish Women International of
Canada. According to that same Ednonton Sun article. these
press releases emanate from a 10:00 a.m. meeting which was
held at the office of Ms Chapman's Alberta Council of Women's
Shelters on October 4, 1995.
Honourable senators, it seems that persons like Ms Chapman
believe that they are supported by Minister Allan Rock's
statements, as reported in The Toronto Star of August 30, 1995.
The Toronto Star of that day reported, about Minister Rock, that
"he made it clear be expects his gun control package to become
law without amendments." That article quotes Minister Rock as
stating that "they- - senators - -will perform their important
but limited function.Honourable senators, if persons like Ms Chapman believe that
they can rely on these statements of Justice Minister Rock in
their committing of a contempt of Parliament. they are mistaken
and should be so informed by this chamber.
Honourable senators. I ask His Honour the Speaker to rule on
a prima facie case of breach of privilege. If the Speaker so finds
a prina facie breach. I am prepared to move the necessary
motion referring this matter to the appropriate committee.
Honourable senators, I thank you for your attention and I hope
you will commend nie for having raised this matter at the earliest
convenience. I was very attentive to being right on time this time
around.

October 5, 1995

October5,DEBATES
1995SENATE

Hon. Noël A. Kinsella: Honourable senators, 1 sainte my
coileague, Senator Cools. for her vigilance in wanting to fulfil
the requirement of mile 43, that the preservation of the priviieges
of the Senate is the duty of every senator. However, in ail
candour and frankness, 1 do flot think that the matter that bas
been raised meets the test of a prima facie case of breach of
privilege at all.
I read the article which appeared in The Edmonton Sun on
Wednesday, October 4, to which she referred. Whilst the
language was poetic, I do flot believe that a word such as "sham"
is even unpariiamentary. If you examine the records of the
Standing Senate Committee on Social Affairs, Science and
Technoiogy of a few years ago when it was examining the
amendments to the Immigration Act, one honourabie colieague
opposite repeatedly caiied the hearings of that committee a sham.
The term finds expression in our record. When you look at that
word at face value, I do flot think that there is any hreach of
priviiege by one using that word.
0 (I520)

Lt is terribly important that the test for a prima facie case of
priviiege must be reiativeiy onerous. Lt must be substantive.
Otherwise, we demean the value of priviiege and the importance
of protecting the integrity of this chamber.
I find this matter somewhat frivolous, and do flot think that
Your Honour shouid find the case meeting the test of breach of
priviiege in the prima facie fashion.
Senator Coois: Honourable senators, perhaps 1 should attempt
to ciarify that my sense of offence was flot oniy at being called a
"doit." I have been calied that, and many worse things before.
Perhaps 1 did flot make myseif clear enough and shouid try
harder. Perhaps if 1 had had more time to prepare, I might have
been able to do better.
The essentiai point I was trying to make is that there are press
releases and press statements now going out across this country
which misrepresent the Senate by saying that senators are
inattentive to women's groups, that senators are ignoring

2107
20

women's groups, or that somehow senators are improperly
treating women's groups. That, to my mind, is the central issue
which I am asking His Honour to examine.
I understand, of course. that on the other side many senators
are much more prone to disagree with me than other persons. I
understand that, and I accept that. I wouid ask His Honour to
give the matter judicious consideration, particularly in view of
the fact that senators have been damaged and injured in this
regard. What is being said about the Senate is simply flot truc.
Senators have been very attentive and have given proper
consideration to everything that is being said to them in
committee, and are considerate of ail] groups, including women's
groups.
As a matter of fact, most of us are gentlemen and gentie ladies.
We are not in the habit of treating people as the remarks within
these articles, press releases, and statements purport. We really
are quite a gentie and decent group of people.
Hon. Richard J. Doyle: Honourabie senators, I think any
member of the committee who reads or iistens to Senator Cools
wouid feei some pleasure at hearing her angry words. It does flot
hurt us to get angry every now and then; even jump up and down
and spit, if that wili help.
However, I do flot think that there really is a case here that we
can take to some higher authority and expect them to pronounce
us madder than we are, or as mad as we are thought to be.
Having said that, 1 thînk we shouid go to the next meeting of
the Standing Senate Committee on Legal and Constitutional
Affairs and give them more of the same.
The Hon. the Speaker: If no other honourabie senators wish
to speak, I wili take the matter under advisement and report back
at a later date.
Motion adjoumned to await ruiing of the Speaker.
The Senate adjourned until Tuesday, October 17, 1995,
at 2:00 p.m.

THE SENATE
Tuesday, October 17, 1995
The Senate met at 2:00 p.m., the Speaker pro tempore in the

Chair.
Prayers.

VISITORS IN THE GALLERY
The Hon. the Speaker pro tempore: Honourable senators. I
wish to call to your attention the presence in the gallery of His
Excellency Jozef Skolc, President of the National Assembly of
the Republic of Slovenia and His Excellency the Ambassador of
Slovenia to Canada. I know that all honourable senators welcome
our distinguished guests.
Hon. Senators: Hear, hear!

Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourable senators, I should like to associate
myself with the remarks of Senator Forrestall in congratulating a
Nova Scotian on achieving the leadership of a national party.
Alexa McDonough and her family have served the province
politically and with industry for many years. All members of the
family have not always been on the same side of the fence
politically, but she has demonstrated an enormous strength, a
willingness for service, and the kind of dedication which, I am
sure, will serve her party, her province and al] Canadians well.
I do not know where she intends to run, but I want to assure
Senator Forrestall that Mary Clancy. the distinguished member of
Parliament for Halifax, is in no way quaking in her boots and is
looking forward to many years of service as the Liberal member
of Parliament for Halifax.

Senator Forrestall: Want to bet?

SENATORS' STATEMENTS
FELICITATIONS TO NOVA SCOTIANS
ON RECENT ELECTION SUCCESSES
Hon. J. Michael Forrestall: Honourable senators, I rise
briefly to make two observations: The first is with respect to a
fellow Nova Scotian, albeit a native of Ottawa, Alexa
McDonough, and to extend to her our warmest congratulations,
together with those of thousands of other Canadians.
I knew Ms McDonough even before she entered politics in
Nova Scotia. She is one of those people of whom I have often
said that I wished she were a conservative democrat rather than a
social democrat. Whatever her choice, she has followed it with
honesty and vigour, and with the determination that the left in
politics in our country should not be without a voice. She has
shown determination that the views of social democracy should
be kept alive, not only so that Canadians might have a choice,
but also because she believed and continues to believe very
strongly in those principles.
I wish her well. Given the opportunity, I would say to Mary
Clancy that she should be trembling in her shoes. I would also
say to Ron MacDonald that I found his comments with respect to
Ms McDonough simply not acceptable, and that they caused me
some embarrassment when I read them.
Conservatism is alive and well, although the Canadian Press
has forgotten what the words "Progressive Conservative" mean.
All they have been able to print in their articles in recent years
have been the words "Tory" or "Toryism," or some other
euphemism. Alfie MacLeod won a by-election in Cape Breton, a
bastion of Liberalism. He took the seat away from them and
added it to those of Terry Donahoe. the leader. More important,
now he will take his seat when the new leader of the Nova Scotia
Progressive Conservative Party starts that very short and quick
march to the premier's office in our great province.

Senator Graham: I should also comment on the other
comments that Senator Forrestall made with respect to the
election in Cape Breton West. One must look at the overall
numbers in Nova Scotia and. as all Liberals do, look with
confidence to the future and to the next election in that province.

WOMEN AND LITERACY
Hon. Erminie J. Cohen: Honourable senators, having
recently participated in the United Nations Fourth World
Conference on Women in Beijing, and having learned so much
more about literacy throughout the world, and secure in the belief
that women and girls' access to literacy is a major obstacle to
equality and quality of life, I wish to share with you a recent
moving experience.
At the beginning of October, I was privileged to attend the
Saint John Leaming Exchange's first Luncheon for Literacy and
the introduction of their second production called The Day /
Disappeared.What a message! The cast of 27 students of
varying ages presented a stirring account of the feelings and
frustrations of the uneducated as they strive for self-esteem and
recognition. At one point in the play, the female lead said, "They
all think I am a loser." She was attending a funeral with many
relatives who looked down their noses at her. She went on to say,
"They're all university graduates and business people and I am
nothing to them; I can see it in their eyes."
It was an emotional presentation and drove home to each of us
in the audience the feelings that these people live with e-very day
such as lack of social acceptance. loss of self-esteem, being on
the outside looking in, feeling ashamed.
The Day I Disappeared,performed on a makeshift stage.
presented a journey through an educational system that often
fosters frustration and the isolation of people who fail in public
schools or slip through the cracks. It convinced many of us that
people who have not been successful in a formal educational
atmosphere thrive in programs such as this. They require a
non-traditional learning environinent.

SENATE DEBATES

October 17, 1995

Drama is empowering for everyone involved. It provides
opportunities for people to grow and recognize their own
strengths, courage and talents. It is an effective tool in building
the confidence of its pupils while at the same time providing the
public with insights into literacy and educational issues.
The Saint John Learning Exchange is a not-for-profit literacy
education training centre dedicated to the empowerment of
individuals, be they adults, children or youth. Those of us present
marvelled at the level of talent and skills we witnessed, and you
could see the pride and self-esteem of the actors as they listened
to the applause and the praise of the audience.
At the end of the performance, one of the performers shared
this comment with a newspaper reporter: "Somehow," she said,
"because of hardships in your life, you feel like you are a failure,
but what I have learned through this program is that there is
always hope. There are places to go if people want to learn, and
you don't have to feel stupid about it. I am very proud to be
here."
So my message to you, honourable senators, is to keep that
hope alive, visit the learning exchanges in your province. Be ever
vigilant. In these days of shrinking funds it is important that we
support literacy so we can give these students a second chance to
feel good about themselves.
Hon. Senators: Hear, hear!

ROUTINE PROCEEDINGS

2109

Therefore your Committee recommends that a humble
address be presented to His Excellency the Governor
General praying that he will cause to be laid before the
Senate a copy of the Submissions to Treasury Board in
August 1993 relating to the Pearson Airport Agreements.
Respectfully submitted,
FINLAY MACDONALD,
Chairman
The Hon. the Speaker pro tempore: Honourable senators,

when shall this report be taken into consideration?
Senator MacDonald: Honourable senators, because this is a
select committee, I am obliged to give two days' notice. I suggest
that it be placed on the Orders of the Day for consideration on
Thursday next.
Motion agreed to and bill placed on the Orders of the Day for
consideration Thursday next, October 19, 1995.
ADJOURNMENT
Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourable senators, with leave of the Senate,
and notwithstanding rule 58(l)(h), I move:

That when the Senate adjourns today, it do stand
adjourned until Wednesday, October 18, 1995, at one-thirty
o'clock in the afternoon.
The Hon. the Speaker pro tempore: Honourable senators, is

PEARSON AIRPORT AGREEMENTS
SECOND REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE PRESENTED

Hon. Finlay MacDonald, Chairman of the Special Committee
of the Senate on the Pearson Airport Agreements, presented the
following report:
Tuesday, October 17, 1995
The Special Committee of the Senate on the Pearson
Airport Agreements has the honour to present its
SECOND REPORT
On May 4, 1995, pursuant to a motion adopted by the
Senate, your Committee was appointed to "examine and
report upon all matters concerning the policies and
negotiations leading up to, and including, the agreements
respecting the redevelopment and operation of Terminals 1
and 2 at Lester B. Pearson International Airport and the
circumstances relating to the cancellation thereof."
In order to carry out this mandate, it is crucial that your
Committee be granted access to the Treasury Board
Submissions of August 1993 concerning the Pearson Airport
Agreements. Your Committee is satisfied that the release of
these documents is in the public interest and constitutes a
reasonable exception to the customary practice of respecting
Cabinet confidentiality.

leave granted?

Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Motion agreed to.
FIREARMS BILL
NOTICE OF MOTION TO INSTRUCT COMMITTEE
TO TABLE FINAL REPORT

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, pursuant to rule 58(1)(f), I give notice that
on Wednesday, October 18, 1995, I will move:
That it be an instruction of this House to the Standing
Senate Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs that
no later than Tuesday, November 7, 1995, it present its final
report to the Senate on Bill C-68, an Act Respecting
firearms and other weapons, referred to it on June 22, 1995.
EXPLOSIVES ACT
BILL TO AMEND-FIRST READING

The Hon. the Speaker pro tempore informed the Senate that a

message had been received from the House of Commons with
Bill C-71. to amend the Explosives Act.
Bill read first time.

The Hon. the Speaker pro tempore: Honourable senators,
when shall this bill be read the second time?
On motion of Senator Graham, bill placed on the Orders of the
Day for second reading on Thursday next, October 19, 1995.

BILL CONCERNING KARLA HOMOLKA
FIRST READING

Hon. Anne C. Cools presented BiIl S-11, concerning one
Karla Homolka.
Bill read first time.
The Hon. the Speaker pro tempore: Honourable senators,
when shall this bill be read the second time?
On motion of Senator Cools, bill placed on the Orders of the
Day for second reading on Thursday next, October 19, 1995.

Ignoring the impacts of liberalized Japanese markets and
increased Canadian competitiveness, projected exports from
Canada to Japan will climb to $14 billion in 2002, which is
80 per cent greater than 1993 levels.
Honourable senators. while in Japan, members of this
delegation were able to express Canadian concerns and promote
Canadian excellence with our Japanese counterparts. This will
help ensure a growing Canadian presence in the Japanese market
and will allow us to work with our own business communities in
encouraging increased commercial activity with Japan.

TRANSPORT AND COMMUNICATIONS
CANADA'S INTERNATIONAL COMPETITIVE POSITION
IN TELECOMMUNICATIONS-NOTICE OF MOTION
TO AUTHORIZE COMMITTEE TO EXTEND DATE
FOR FINAL REPORT ON SPECIAL STUDY

Hon. Donald H. Oliver: Honourable senators, I give notice
that tomorrow, Wednesday, October 18, 1995, I will move:

CANADA-FRANCE
INTER-PARLIAMENTARY ASSOCIATION

That notwithstanding its order of reference of
April 5, 1995, the Standing Senate Committee on Transport
and Communications be authorized to continue its special
study on Canada's international competitive position in
telecommunications; and

MEETING HELD IN PARIS-REPORT
OF CANADIAN DELEGATION TABLED

That the Committee present its report no later than
March 29, 1996.

[Translation]

Hon. Gérald-A. Beaudoin: Honourable senators, I have the
honour to table, in both official languages, the report of the
Canadian delegation of the Canada-France Inter-Parliamentary
Association to the meeting of the standing committee of the
association, which was held in Paris on May 23 and 24, 1995.
[English]

CANADA-JAPAN INTER-PARLIAMENTARY GROUP
SIXTH ANNUAL MEETING HELD IN TOKYO AND OSAKA.
JAPAN-REPORT OF CANADIAN DELEGATION TABLED

Hon. Dan Hays: Honourable senators, I have the honour to
table, in both official languages, the report of the Canadian
delegation to the sixth annual meeting of the Canada-Japan
Inter-Parliamentary Group, which was held in Tokyo and Osaka
on September 9-16, 1995.
If I may comment, honourable senators, Japan is Canada's
largest trading partner after the United States. Volume of trade
has more than doubled since 1985 and is increasingly diversified
in composition. In 1994, Canada's exports to Japan rose by
13 per cent to $9.5 billion, resulting in an increase of over
$1 billion for the second year in a row.

UNITED NATIONS
FOURTI WORLD CONFERENCE ON WOMEN,
BEIJING, CHINA-NOTICE OF INQUIRY

Hon. Landon Pearson: Honourable senators, I give notice
that on Tuesday next, October 24, I will open an inquiry into
the Fourth World Conference on Women held in Beijing,
September 4-15, which Senator Erminie Cohen and I had the
privilege to attend as parliamentary observers on behalf of the
Senate.
[Translation]

GUN CONTROL LEGISLATION
PRESENTATION OF PETITION

Hon. Rose-Marie Losier-Cool: Honourable senators, I have
the honour of presenting a petition signed by the residents of
Anjou and Rivière-des-Prairies. The petitioners earnestly support
Bill C-68 on firearm control and registration. I am submitting
this petition to the Senate on behalf of these citizens, who are
concerned with improving their safety and their future.

SENATE DEBATES

October 17, 1995

[English]

QUESTION PERIOD
NATIONAL FINANCE
REPORT OF AUDITOR GENERAL ON NATIONAL
DEBT-GOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. Duncan J. Jessiman: Honourable senators, my question
is for the honourable government leader and concerns the
national debt and the recent report of the Auditor General.
Earlier this month, the Auditor General submitted a wellarticulated report on the need for national long-term debt
strategy. When questioned about this report in the other place, the
Minister of Finance simply reiterated his message of setting
two-year deficit targets. I think he is missing the point, which is
with respect to the sustainability of our current debt levels, not
our current deficit levels.
The Auditor General said further:
To date, discussions about fiscal policy have focused on
deficit reduction and balanced budgets. They have not given
enough consideration to the larger question of how much
debt we can sustain over the long haul, and how that fits
within our view of taxation and the role of govemment.
The Auditor General went on to say:
We believe that the government should engage Parliament
in developing this vision.
My question for the government leader is simple: Does she
agree with the words, "We believe that the govemment should
engage Parliament in developing this vision"?
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, the Minister of Finance, perhaps more than
any of his predecessors, has engaged Parliament and the people
in the discussion of these issues. He has done so through
references to parliamentary committees which have conducted
public hearings in this country. He has done so with his annual
financial report that came out last year. He has provided more
information than ever before on tax expenditures. He has given
updates to his program. His whole budget process has been
opened up, unlike the practice at any other time in my experience
on Parliament Hill, which goes back a very long way. It was a
very secretive process at one time.
The Minister of Finance and the government could not agree
more with the Auditor General, first, with regard to the level of
debt in Canada and, second, insofar as following his suggestions
to have more information produced. I believe that my colleague
the Minister of Finance will continue to follow that program.
Senator Jessiman: I am not quite sure that the Leader of the
Government in the Senate has answered my question, but I take it
that the answer is "yes" since she seems to agree that Parliament
should be engaged in this vision.
The Auditor General also said:

In our view, only when government is committed to a vision
about how much debt it is prepared to carry, and crafts
budgets with that in mind, will it be possible for Canadians
to assess how annual budgets fit into a longer-term vision
for sustainable debt.
He went on to say that that involves not only Ottawa, but
governments at all levels. He then continued:
The reality is that there are three levels of government
taxing us and borrowing on our behalf. If we are ever to
look beyond each jurisdiction in isolation and ask the
question how much debt can Canadians carry, we need to
know how much debt is owed by all levels of government in
Canada. Information currently available doesn't answer that
question very well.
Would the Leader of the Government in the Senate agree that
the debt is a national problem that demands national attention?
Senator Olson: It is a Conservative disaster.
Senator Fairbairn: I can certainly agree with my honourable
colleague's final statement that the national debt is a national
problem that requires national attention. However, I do not
believe there is anyone in this country who has devoted himself
more assiduously to that problem than the current Minister of
Finance. My honourable friend uses the word "vision." The
Minister of Finance set forward a plan which was indicated
during the last election campaign, and he will adhere to that plan
in relation to our deficit reduction program. He has made it very
clear that our ultimate goal is a balanced budget. He has also
made it very clear that it is only through adhering systematically
to a plan that can be achieved that we will then cut to the heart of
this overwhelming debt which burdens our country.
Senator Jessiman: The govemment was offered the chance to
respond publicly to the Auditor General's report, but did not.
They did, however, send a letter to the Auditor General, thanking
him for the advice, but requesting that the letter not be published.
Will the Leader of the Government in the Senate look into this
matter and advise this chamber of the reason for the
govemment's refusal to publish its reply to the Auditor General
on this matter? If the government is willing to make its reply
public, will she undertake to table it?
Senator Fairbairn: I will pursue my honourable friend's
question with my colleague the Minister of Finance.
HEALTH
BOVINE GROWTH HORMONE-EVALUATION
OF HEALTH RISK-REPRESENTATIONS FROM
UNITED STATES-GOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. Mira Spivak: Honourable senators, I have a question for
the Leader of the Govemment in the Senate. Canada is still in a
holding pattern on the question of allowing the sale of rBST, the
controversial bovine growth hormone. There are fears among
public health advocates in the United States that high-level
pressure bas been applied on this government to influence the
outcome in favour of the multinational companies that produce
rBST.

My question for the Leader of the Government in the Senate is
straightforward: Can she confirm or deny whether our officiais
have refused any formal or informai representations on the
matter from the office of the U.S. trade representative Mickey
Kantor? If there has been such representations, what has been the
response?

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government): To my
honourable friend, I will follow up her inquiry. I know that she is
aware that Health Canada is continuing its evaluation of rBST
for safety and effectiveness. Until this evaluation is completed
and a decision made, there is absolutely no question that rBST
cannot be sold for use in Canada.

Can the Leader of the Government in the Senate determine
whether or not there is any truth in that rumour? It is a very
alarming rumour to have floating around and, if there is no truth
to it, it should be put to rest.
Senator Fairbairn: I will do my best, Senator Forrestall.

CANADA-CHINA RELATIONS
VISIT TO CANADA OF CHINESE PREMIER-RAISING
OF HUMAN RIGHTS ISSUES-GOVERNMENT POSITION

I will follow up on my honourable friend's specific question,
but I wished to reiterate the position that we have taken in the
past so that she will know that that position still holds.

Hon. Noël A. Kinsella: My question is for the Leader of the
Government in the Senate. Will she relate to Canadians what the
Prime Minister of Canada had to say to the Prime Minister of
China with respect to human rights abuses in that country?

Senator Spivak: I thank the Honourable Leader of the
Government. I am aware through answers to my previous
questions that Health Canada is still evaluating this matter.
Perhaps the government leader can tell us whether she has any
indication as to when we can expect some result on that
particular evaluation?

We ail know that a great number of Canadians have
manifested their concern with the delinking of human rights from
Canadian foreign policy and Canadian trade policy. Would the
minister be able to advise this house and Canadians as to what
exactly the Prime Minister said to the Chinese Prime Minister
about human rights violations in China?

Senator Fairbairn: I cannot give my honourable friend a
definite date, but I will try to communicate with her perhaps later
this week, if possible.

TRANSPORT
MERGER OF CANADIAN COAST GUARD WITH DEPARTMENT OF
FISHERIES AND OCEANS-GOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. J. Michael Forrestall: My question is for the Leader of
the Government in the Senate. It arises out of speculation in the
press - as yet unconfirmed - that the merger of the
Department of Fisheries and Oceans with the Canadian Coast
Guard will probably result in the elimination of some
150 shipboard jobs and 24 vessels from the service, and the
closure of the Coast Guard base at Dartmouth.
Can the leader confirm for us whether or not these reports are
accurate? If they are accurate, inasmuch as they are alleged to be
based on internai studies and documents, could those internai
studies and documents be made available?
With the elimination of some 24 vessels and the closure of the
Coast Guard base, at issue, of course, is the safety of in-shore,
near-shore, and certainly gulf marine activity.

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government): My first
response will be to clarify the validity of the reports that my
honourable friend has raised and, contingent on that, the question
of documentation.
Senator Forrestall: It is our understanding from press reports
in Atlantic Canada that these alleged studies went to a certain
point, but that the Minister of Transport, Mr. Young, and the
Minister of Fisheries and Oceans, Mr. Tobin. then went beyond
the recommendations of their officials to sone extent.

[ Senator Spiv ak 1

Senator Oison: That is a fabrication of information.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: The Prime Minister said that we
had no influence; that we are too small, and too inconsequential.

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government): To my
honourable friend, the Prime Minister has indicated that, as
always in his talks with Li Peng, he raised the issue of human
rights. He did so again on the occasion of the most recent
meeting, as he did on the visit to China and on other occasions in
the past. I was not present at the discussions, so I could not tell
my honourable friend exactly what was said.
However, the Prime Minister has made it clear repeatedly, and
in particular in recent exchanges in the House, that Canada does
express itself vigorously and forcefully on the issue of human
rights.
Canada does not shirk its bilateral responsibilities, nor does it
hold back from expressing its views at the United Nations.
Canada also believes that with countries where human rights are
of concem, improved contact in terms of economics, trade and
social development will have a profound influence upon the
progress of human rights and will serve to bring those countries
even closer to the rest of the world. China falls within that
category.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: Like in Cuba or Singapore?
TRADE IN GOODS MANUFACTURED
IN LABOUR CAMPS-GOVERNMENT POLICY

Hon. Noël A. Kinsella: Will the Government of Canada
refuse, as a matter of policy, to trade in goods manufactured in
the People's Repuhlic of China by those who are incarcerated in
work camps'?

October 17, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

SENATE DEBATES

October 17. 1995

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, I would need to seek advice on that
particular question. However, I also wish to underline the
importance of the visit of the Premier of China to Canada. Many
benefits to Canadians will arise from that visit. Considerable
benefits will also accrue to the people of China. That mutual
benefit underpins the government's interest in pursuing not just
trade but the betterment of society in China and other such
countries. The Prime Minister will continue to visit these
countries during his administration and to carry to them the same
message.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: It sounds like we are sending
missionaries.

2113
2113

As a general rule, dialogue and engagement, rather than
isolation, represent the most effective avenues for
influencing governments to respect international human
rights obligations.
These obligations originate in the UN Charter which
requires all United Nations members to promote universal
respect for human rights and in the 1948 Universal
Declaration of Human Rights, as well as several UN human
rights treaties.
Canada continues to exercise leadership on a broad range

of human rights and democratic development issues in the
UN and other multilateral fora. For example, this

Senator Fairbairn: Certainly, I would consider the Prime
Minister of Canada and the premiers of nine of our provinces as
extremely potent missionaries in this world.

government played a key role in the creation of the post of
United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights and
continues to work actively in support of his work and efforts

Senator Lynch-Staunton: Yes, and the almighty dollar is our

to strengthen the UN human rights system. Canada
successfully led efforts to create a UN Special Rapporteur

God.

on Violence Against Women and continues to take a lead in

international efforts to integrate women's rights into the
DELAYED ANSWERS TO ORAL QUESTIONS
Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourable senators, I have a response to a
question raised in the Senate on May 25, 1995, by the
Honourable Senator Andreychuk, regarding the commitment to
intervention with transgressor countries; a response to a question

raised in the Senate, May 25, 1995, by the Honourable Senator
Kinsella, regarding the possibility of imposing embargoes on
transgressor countries; a response to a question raised in the
Senate, June 6, 1995, by the Honourable Senator
Lynch-Staunton, regarding the inclusion of Chile in NAFTA; a
response to a question raised in the Senate, June 6, 1995, by the
Honourable Senator Nolin, regarding the extension of NAFTA to
include Chile; a response to a question raised in the Senate,
June 9, 1995, by the Honourable Senator Kinsella, regarding the
relationship to aid and trade; a response to a question raised in
the Senate, June 28, 1995, by the Honourable Senator Nolin,
regarding negotiations towards inclusion of Chile in NAFTA; a
response to a question raised in the Senate, July 11, 1995, by the
Honourable Senator Comeau, regarding the Canada Post
Corporation; and a response to a question raised in the Senate,
July 12, 1995, by the Honourable Senator Prud'homme,
regarding the scrutiny of Mr. David Berger's views prior to his
appointment as Ambassador to Israel and Cyprus.
HUMAN RIGHTS
COMMITMENT TO INTERVENTION WITH
TRANSGRESSOR COUNTRIES-GOVERNMENT POSITION
(Response to question raised bY Hon. A. Ravnell Andrevchuk
on May 25, 1995)

mainstream of human rights mechanisms in the UN
(including at the World Conference of Women), OAS,
Commonwealth and Francophonie.
One of the six priorities for Canada's official
development assistance is human rights, democracy, and
good governance. Through CIDA the government will
support activities aimed at strengthening legislative and
judicial systems and increasing the capacity of people to
participate fully and effectively in decision making in their
countries, as well as peace and reconciliation initiatives,
human rights education and electoral assistance.
Canada played a lead role in efforts to ensure the
reinstatement of democracy in Haiti, and both through

participation in UN operations and through the training of
Haitian police, is contributing to the nation-building
exercise underway in that country.
The Government engages in ongoing consultations with
human rights nongovernmental organizations on a broad
range of international human rights issues. These
discussions are important in determining our policy
priorities in the field of international human rights.
POSSIBILITY OF IMPOSING EMBARGOES
ON TRANSGRESSOR COUNTRIES-GOVERNMENT POSITION
(Response to question raised by Hon. Noël A. Kinsella on
May 25, 1995)

The government is not contemplating imposing an
embargo on any country in the world at present. In most

The Government will continue to exercise leadership in
promoting respect for human rights and will use a variety of
means to do so including both bilateral and multilateral
diplomacy and assistance to goveriments building
democratie institutions.

cases, the government believes that Canada can maximize
its influence by maintaining dialogue and engagement with
a particular government rather than by isolating it.

Embargoes are most effective when imposed multilaterally.
i.e., by the whole international community.

NORTHI AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT
INCLUSION 0F CHILE INFLUENCE ON EXISTING
AGREEMENT GOVERNMENT POSITION
(Response to question raised bYHon. John Lvntch-Stciuntoni on
lune 6, 1995)
The first detaiied. ail-chapter negntiating session on
Chilean accession to NAFTA took place in Mexico City
July 25 - August 1. Under the direction of chief negotiators
from Canada, the United States, Mexico and Chule, varions
working groups discussed a full range of technical issues
required for Chile's accession.
An August 2 meeting of the U.S. Trade Subcommittee on
bhe House Ways and Means Committee, which was
scheduled to consider fast track legislabion, was cancelled. l
is not yet known wben the Republican Congressionai
Leadership wiii present the draft iegislation for deliberation
by appropriate committees.
Canada entered these negotiations on the clear
understanding with its NAFTA partners that the addition of
a fourth member might require limited and very technical
adjusbments to bbc NAFTA text to accommodate a new
member. The negotiations should not entail a reopening or
rebalancing of the righbs and obligations between the
NAFTA's current members.
EXTENSION OF AGREEMENT TO

INCLUDE CILE

GOVERN MENT POSITION

(Response to question raised bv Hon. Pierre Claude Nolîîî on
lune 6, 1995)
Presently the Chilean invesbment system is transparent
and open. Chile welcomes foreign investmenb. Canadian
businesses investing there bave no fundamental probiems
with current practices. Chile's accession to the NAFTA,
including ils high-qualiby provisions on non-discriminatory
treatment for foreign invesbmenb, will provide a kind of
longer-term insurance poiicy protecting Canadian investors
if, at some point in the future, Chile were to consider the
introduction of practices that might discriminate against
Canadian investors. Chile's membership in the NAFTA
means that it will no longer be necessary to seek to
negotiate a bilaberal foreign investment protection
agreement witb Chule.

HUMAN RIGHTS
RELATIONSHTP TO AIl) AND TRADE

GOVERNMENT POLICY

(Respon %C to question raised b) Hon. Noël A. Kinsella on
June 9, 1995>
The Governmnît's poiicy on humîaii iights rernains as
oLutliiied in its response to the foreign policy review: human
n -lhts are i undaniental to Caniadian values. crucial to bbe

promotion of international peace and security. and integral
to Canada's foreign poiicy.
Tbe issue is flot whether, but how the Government can
best promote human rights internationally. While the
Government does flot contend that trade automatically
enhances human rights, only in the rarest cases are the
pursuit of trade and the promotion of human rights
incompatible. The Government believes that, ini most cases,
trade reduces isolation and generates the economic growth
required to sustain social change and development.
As stated in the response to the question put by Senator
Kinsella on March 23rd, regular and systematic reporting on
human rights and democratic development is an integral part
of the work of Canadian diplomatic missions in support of
these and other objectives set in the foreign policy review.
With respect to the incarceration of a number of Chinese
human rights activists, this issue was raised by senior
Departmental officiais in Ottawa with the Chinese
Ambassador.

FOREIGN AFFAIRS
NEGOTIATIONS TOWARDS INCLUSION 0F CHILE
IN NAFTA-REQUEST FOR PROGRESS REPORT

(Response to question raised bY lion. Pierre Cla ude Nolin on
lune 28, 1995)
Initiai taiks on Chile's accession to NAFTA have begun.
However, the Chilean governiment has stated that il will not
engage deeply in negotiations on core sensitivities until the
disposition of fast track legisiation in the U.S. Congress is
much clearer. (Fast track allows trade agreements, once
negotiabed. to move througb Congress without tormai
amiendment.)
On September 21, 1995, the House Ways and Means
Committee approved a bill on fast track brade legisiation. If
the bill moves tbrough Congress successfully, it will
encourage Chule to engage more deeply in negobiations.
However. the disposition of the bill remains uncertain, as it
was approved along party lines. Successful passage tbrough
the full Congress will require bipartisan support as has been
the tradition in the past in the U.S. on trade legisiation. L is
uncertain whether or not the Administration and
Congressional leadership can resolve their differences.
Discussions are ongoing.
Detailed work to bring Chule into NAFTA began formally
in Toronto, in June, in a meeting of the brade ministers from
NAFTA countries and Chule. The first detailed. aillchapter
negobiabion session on Chilean accession took place in
Mexico Ciby July 25 -August lst. Two more negotiating
sessions took place in September. Chief Negobiators wsili
report their progress to Ministers who will assess progress
and deterniine thie nlext steps in the nlegotiations.

October 17, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

CANADA POST CORPORATION
EXTENSION OF CONTRACT ON LEASES-REQUEST FOR
INFORMATION ON MEMBERS OF CONSORTIUM

(Response to question raised by Hon. Gerald J. Coneau on
July 11, 1995)

There was no extension of the consortium's contract.
Rather, there was a new contract, the details of which are
outlined in the press release below.
The members of the consortium are included in this press
release.
The management and daily operations of Canada Post are
carried out at arm's length from the government.
PROFAC SIGNS CONTRACT WITH CANADA POST
FOR PROPERTY MANAGEMENT SERVICES
Ottawa - December 7, 1994 - PROFAC Management

Limited, a facilities management company owned by
Bracknell Corporation, SNC-Lavalin Inc. and Enterprise
Investments Inc. bas signed on November 16, 1994, a five
and a half year contract with Canada Post Corporation to
provide property management services for the Corporation's
facilities in Central and Eastern Canada. The contract is
valued at approximately $350 million.
PROFAC's services will include the implementation of a
wide range of planning improvements designed to achieve
cost savings and improve services in over 530 locations
representing more than 11 million square feet of space in
Ontario, Québec and Atlantic Canada.

2115

Enterprise Investments Inc., through its subsidiary
Enterprise property Group Limited, is Canada's largest
independent third-party real estate management services
company providing specialized management services to
over 20 million square feet of space.
HIS EXCELLENCY DAVID BERGER
SCRUTINY ON VIEWS PRIOR
TO HIS APPOINTMENT AS AMBASSADOR
TO ISRAEL AND CYPRUS-GOVERNMENT POSITION

(Response to question raised by Hon. Marcel Prud'homme on
July 12, 1995)
Mr. Berger completed a period of intense consultations

for his new assignment. The government bas every
confidence that he will faithfully and vigorously advocate
Canadian Policy. It should be noted that his consultations
included extensive meetings with leaders of both the
Canadian Jewish and Arab communities, meetings that
proved uniformly productive. Finally, Mr. Berger looks
forward to working with the mayor of Bethlehem and other
Palestinian leaders as he takes up his assignment.
Mr. Berger has had a distinguished career in Parliament
and certainly is not new to Middle East issues. He has a
keen sense for Canadian values of openness and fair-play,
values the government knows will bring to bear to great
effect in his new assignment. With respect to his remarks
during Mayor Freij's visit, Mr. Berger formally apologized
in the House, on the day following the incident in question (June 15, 1983).

PROFAC's seven regional offices will also provide
technical and contract support to local postmasters to ensure
the efficient maintenance of about 1,400 smaller buildings.
With this contract, PROFAC, which was founded in 1992,
becomes one of Canada's leading facilities management
firms. Its shareholders are all recognized as leaders in their
fields.
Bracknell Corporation is a construction and specialty
services company which through operating subsidiaries is a
major facilities management specialist with over
1,500 employees offering construction, technical, operations
and maintenance services across the country. Bracknell is
listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange and is a member of
the TSE 300 Composite Index.
The SNC-Lavalin Group is a Canadian company with
operations in engineering-construction and manufacturing,
with more than 5,000 employees, offices in 26 countries,
currently working internationally in some 90 countries. It is
listed on the Montreal and Toronto Stock Exchanges.

ORDERS OF THE DAY
CODE OF CONDUCT
REPORT OF SPECIAL JOINT COMMITTEE ADOPTED

The Senate proceeded to consideration of the first report
(Extension of deadline) of the Special Joint Committee on the
Code of Conduct, presented in the Senate on October 3, 1995.
Hon. Donald H. Oliver: Honourable senators, I move the
adoption of this report.
The Hon. the Speaker pro tempore: Is it your pleasure,
honourable senators, to adopt the motion?
Motion agreed to and report adopted.
The Senate adjourned until Wednesday, October 18, 1995, at

1:30 p.m.

THE SENATE
Wednesday, October 18, 1995
The Senate met at 1:30 p.m., the Speaker pro teinpore in the
Chair.
Prayers.

SENATORS' STATEMENTS
STATUS 0F WOMEN
ANNIVERSARY 0F PRIVY COUNCIL DECISIONCONGRATULATIONS TO WINNERS 0F 1995 PERSONS AWARDS

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):

Not to be denied, these five tenacious Aibertans tumned to the
Judicial Committee of the Prnvy Council, then Canada's highest
court of appeal. After four days of deliberation, the Privy Council
decided in their favour declaring that:
The word "persons" in section 24 includes members of both
the maie and femnale sex.
Ironically, and sadly, while none of the Alberta crusaders were
ever appointed to the Senate, a year later this cbamber welcomed
its first female member, Cairine Wilson of Ottawa. Today.
women number 22 in this chamber.

Honourable senators, it is difficult for aIl of us to imagine that it
was only 66 years ago, on this eighteenth day of October, that
women in Canada were deemed to qualify legally and
constitutionally as "persons." The decision rendered by the Privy
Council in London, England, capped a lengthy and courageous
battle by five firebrands from Alberta.

It was not until 1979 that an Alberta woman entered the Senate
when then Prime Minister Joe Clark appointed our former
colleague, Martha Bielish. That same year, with the
encouragement of Mr. Clark, an Aibertan, the Govemnor General
established commemorative awards for women who. much like
the "famous five," have made outstanding contributions toward
promoting equality and opportunity for women in Canada.

We can thank the efforts of those "famous five" whose names
and stories are on permanent display in the lobby of' this
chamber. They are: Emily Murphy, a magistrate and social
activist; Henrietta Muir Edwards, a joumnalist and artist; Nellie
McClung, a novelist and an Alberta MLA; Louise McKinney, a
temperance worker and member of the Alberta Legislative
Assembly; and Irene Parlby, who was also an Alberta MLA
political and social activists ail.

Honourable senators. 1 want to take this opportunity to
congratulate this year's winners: Marthe Asselin Vaillancourt of
Jonquière, Quebec; Dr. May Cohen of Burlington. Ontario; Ruth
Flowers of Makkovik, Labrador; Sheila Kingham of Victoria,
British Columbia; Carolyn G. Thomas of Dartmouth, Nova
Scotia; and Alice E. Tyler of Edmonton, Alberta.

While women had won the right to vote and to run federally in
1918, the battle for civic equality bad really only just begun. The
spark to ignite this fight occurred when the authority of
Magistrate Emily Murphy to preside at the women's court in
Edmonton was questioned. It was challenged by a defence
lawyer citing English common law which stated:

These women have made great progress in furthering the cause
through their work in many facets of our society - protection
against family violence, human rights, medicine, social activism.
arts and culture. We extend our appreciation and our good wishes
to this year's recipients of the Persons Awards as we salute the
memory of the five Alberta women who made possible the
celebration today.

Women are persons in matters of pains and penalties, but
are not persons in matters of rights and privileges.
Thankfully, this attempt to exclude women from the bench was
later overruled. However, the difficulty with the definition of
"1persons" persisted when it came to the question of the Senate.
In 1927. Emily Murphy joined with the rest of the "famous
five" to ask the Supreme Court of Canada for a reinterpretation
of section 24 of the British North America Act wbicb states:
The Covernor General shaîl. .sumnmon qualified persons to
the Senate.
Wben the Supreme Court of Canada ruled against their case
the following year. Mary Ellen Smitb, a member of' the British
Columbia Legislature. commented:
The iron dropped mbt the souls of women in Canada. when
wse heard that it took a mani to decree that bis niother was
flot a -person.-

Hon. Mira Spivak: Honourable senators, as you will have
noticed, at the entrance to this elegant red chamber are two
bronze busts of women, one on the left and one on the right. One
of those busts is of Cairine Wilson, the first English-spcaking
woman to be appointed to the Senate, and the other is of
Marianna Jodoin, the first francophone woman to be appointed
senator. You wiIl note that there are no busts of men senators;
there are only gargoyles. Lt is evident why this should be so.
The Senate is a powerful symbol in the struggle for women's
equality in Canada, for you will recaîl. as the leader bas pointed
out, that before October 18, 1929, women, by English law, were
persons in the matter of pains and penalties. but not in the matter
of rights and privileges and, thus, were not entitled to be
appointed senators. It was throu 'gh the efforts of Judge Emily
Murphy. the feminist. activist and author. and the -fanous f'ive,"
that the Privy Counicil overniled the Supreme Court of Canada on
that date and deemied that the word -person- mneant woIflCf as
v,,eIl as mer. and thai wonien werc. indeed. entitled to sit in the

October 18, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

Senate. This landmark ruling was part of an amazing revolution
that has spanned my lifetime; a revolution without armies,
without secret caches of arms, but more far-reaching and
profound in its impact than any of the other revolutions of the
twentieth century.
0 (134I>

The women's movement has sparked the most fundamental
social changes of our time, and it points toward more. The first
wave occurred in the late nineteenth and early twentieth century,
when women got the vote. A tremendous wave of feminism, the
second wave, rolled through the 1970s when at last, after a long
silence, women took to the streets. In North America and parts of
Europe, in the two decades of radical action that began in the
1970s. western women gained legal and reproductive rights,
pursued higher education, entered the trades and the professions,
and overturned the old beliefs about their social role.
In Canada, this revolution was sparked by the Royal
Commission on the Status of Women in 1970, which documented
the unequal status of Canadian women in criminal law, child
care, reproduction, employment, education, housing, marriage
and divorce, pensions, maternity leave, pay, politics, and poverty.
That commission made 167 recommendations aimed at
dismantling the legal and economic barriers to women's equality.
It was, and is, an amazing and audacious attempt to transcend the
limits of the human condition, brought about by mainly women's
groups and organizations.
Women are not typical revolutionaries, and so the revolution
has been non-violent. It has gained its powers and momentum
from numbers - more than half the population of the world. Its
victories have been legal and attitudinal. Of course, the heart of
the matter is that the cause is so just.
As the Leader of the Government mentioned, we now see
22 women in this chamber as a resuit of the Persons Case which
opened the door to the first woman senator, Cairine Wilson. It is
interesting to recall as well that the National Action Committee
on the Status of Women, during the debate on the Charlottetown
Accord, called for gender equality in this Senate. We still have
some way to go towards full equality in Canada.

2117

Mary Ellen Smith made a great contribution toward the
establishment of Old Age Pensions and mothers' pensions in the
Province of British Columbia. It was Mary Ellen Smith who said
that there is no such thing as an illegitimate child; there are,
perhaps, illegitimate parents. When she died, she left only a few
dollars in the bank, but she left behind her a legacy for all
Canadians of a compassion for the dispossessed - the friendless,
the homeless, and the people unable to help themselves.
I appreciate the reference to Mary Ellen Smith, who is
regarded in our province as one of the great heroines of our
history but, more important, a great Canadian.
Hon. Bill Rompkey: Honourable senators, I wish to underline
as well the remarks of the Leader of the Government in the
Senate on the events of yesterday, and the awards in
commemoration of the Persons Case. It was an honour for me, as
one of my first acts as a senator, to participate in that ceremony.
In particular, I wish to pay tribute to one of the recipients, and
that is Ruth Flowers from Makkovik, Labrador. I acknowledge
the singular contribution that Ms Flowers has made, which
earned for her the 1995 Governor General's Award in
commemoration of the Persons Case.
Ruth Flowers has been the voice of women in her community.
She has sought to protect women who have been victimized by
violence, to involve women in community and economic
development, and to preserve and promote the traditional culture
of Inuit women.
A committed advocate of women's rights, Ruth was the
catalyst behind the creation of Inuit women of the Torngats, and
its first president. Under her leadership, the organization
established the first safe house for abused women on Labrador's
north shore.
For her dedication and her selfless efforts on behalf of the
women of the north shore of Labrador, the Government of
Canada yesterday honoured Ruth Flowers with the 1995
Governor General's award in commemoration of the Persons
Case. I ask all my colleagues to join me in conveying to her our
congratulations.

I end with a quote from Emily Murphy, who said:
I believe that never was a country better adapted to produce
a great race of women than this Canada of ours, nor a race
of women better adapted to make a great country.
Hon. Raymond J. Perrault: Honourable senators, I
appreciate very much the eloquent statement made today by the
Leader of the Government in the Senate, and the remarks of
Senator Spivak. Mention was made to Mary Ellen Smith in my
leader's presentation.

ROUTINE PROCEEDINGS
EMPLOYMENT EQUITY BILL
FIRST READING

The Hon. the Speaker pro tempore informed the Senate that a
message had been received from the House of Commons with

Mary Ellen Smith was a great Canadian who lived in British
Columbia. She was a woman who had very few monetary
resources, but spearheaded much of the social reform in the
Province of British Columbia. She was the first woman cabinet
minister in the Commonwealth. and also within the Empire, as it
was known at that time.

Bill C-64, respecting employment equity.
Bill read first time.
The Hon. the Speaker pro tempore: Honourable senators,
when shall this bill be read the second time?

On motion of Senator Grabam, witb leave of the Senate and
notwithstanding rule 57(l)(f). bill placed on the Orders of the
Day for second reading ai tbe next sitting of tbe Senate.

the government intends to purchase replacements for the Sea
King helicopters used on board ships and also the Labradors used
for search and rescue.

EXCISE TAX ACT

Honourable senators. 1 arn unable to satisfy my friend on the
question of timing. The government is stili considering ail the
options, and no contract for replacement of helicopters has been
approved at tbis date.

EXCISE ACT
BILL TO AMEND

FIRST READING

The Hon. the Speaker pro tempore informed the Senate tbat a
message had been received from the House of Commons with
Bill C-90, to amend the Excise Tax Act and the Excise Act.
Bill read first time.
The Hon. the Speaker pro tempore: Honourable senators,
when shall this bill be read tbe second time?
On motion of Senator Graham, witb leave of the Senate and
notwithstanding rule 57(1 )(f), bill placed on tbe Orders of the
Day for second reading at tbe next sitting of the Senate.

QUESTION PERIOD
TRANSPORT
SEARCH AND RESCUE-REPLACEMENT 0F SEA KING AND
LAB3RADOR HELICOPTER FLEETS-STATUS 0F EH-101
CONTRACT GOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. J. Michael Forrestaîl: Honourable cenators, 1 arn in
receipt of a reply to a question 1 asked last June baving regard to
tbe EH-101 contract and tbe settlement of tbe costs involved
tberein. Inasmucb as tbat was June and the House is now well
mbt its fail session. it begs the question as to whetber sbe can or
cannot provide us with a status report ai this time on any progress
that may have been made in relationsbip to the purchase of new
helicopters to replace tbe aged Sea Kings and Labrador
belicopters.

a

13o

As the Leader of the Government in the Senate is no doubt
aware, in the last couple of weeks or so we have bad two more
serious incidents involving Sea King helicopters. A Sea King
went down in Quebec in mid-September, and on September 29,
another Sea King, with a crew of six on board from CFB
Shearwater, was forced down between West Dover and Peggy's
Cove in Nova Scotia. Fortunately tbere were no injuries in either
of these two mishaps, but every time anotber one of these
choppers goes down. one cannot belp but compare the situation
to "Russian Roulette."
Despîte tbe fact tbat tbe Minister of Defence said the Sea
Kings are fit to fly îo the year 2000, do tbese recent incidents not
give tbis govemment some cause to refleci or exbibit concern?
Wben will we see some decisive action on tbe part of ibis
cgovemnment?
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators. as 1 bave indicated before in ibis chan1ber,
[The Hon. the Speaker pro teinpore

Senator Forrestall: Honourable senators, God help us.
One of the reasons it is so difficuit to understand this
enormous delay is that $166 million in pre-engineering work and
studies bas already been completed. Does the government leader
flot agree tbat the $166 million in compensation paid to UNISYS
for computer design work on the EH-101 will certainly have to
be included as associated costs in any new purcbase, since some
of this work bas been transferred to tbe Department of National
Defence? Does she not agree that the lengtby period of time to
acbieve this type of computer-driven engineering workup bas
been overtaken by tbe work already in band? The Department of
National Defence bas had this information for tbree or four years.
Honourable senators, this situation causes grave concern for
families wbo watcb tbeir husbands and relatives climb on board
tbose old Sea King belicopters and tly out over water. 1 wisb my
bonourable friend would convey to ber colleagues in government
that it is time to put ibis damned mess bebind tbem and to move
on in a positive direction. one tbat reflects tbe concern of
legisiators for tbe well being of tbose we ask to put tbeir lives on
tbe fine for us. Would sbe instill iii tbem some sense of concern
and urgency, not just tbe politeness of commerce?
Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators, 1 know the concern
of Senator Forrestaîl. and 1 thiiîk every senatur in this chamber
sbares it. 1 tbink tbe Minister of National Defence sbares tbe
concem that our Canadian Forces, wberever tbey may serve, be
well protected and served by whatever equipment they use, so
tbey can do tbeir jobs.
I understand my bonourable friend's frustration ai tbe time that
bas elapsed on this issue. I can only assure bim tbat tbîs issue is
very mucb in tbe mind of tbe Minister of National Defence. I wil]
be more ihan pleased to convey my honourable friend's strong,
personal concerns to my colleague.
HEALTH
CONTROLLED DRUGS AND SUBSTANCES BILL-REQUIRED
GOVERNMENT POSITION
AMENDMENTS

Hon. Erminie J. Cohen: Honourable senators. physicians,
herbalists, natural food advocates and other groups in Canada are
very concerned about tbe government's proposed legislation.
Bill C-7. This bill is in effect a reintroduction of Bill C-85. wbich
was introduced by tbe previous government and died on tbe
Order Paper in tbe last Parliameni.
Many of tbe amnendinents recommnended bv the legislative
comnmitice on Bill C-85 were iiîcuiporated ini Bill C-7. but tbere
are shîll concerns which ba\xe 1101 been addressed. There is a need
loi- criminal lav, to be precise and cîcar hecause Of' tle serionIs

SENATE DEBATES

October 18, 1995

consequences associated with breaking the law, but this bill is
neither. For example, there is fear that clause 3 in the bill could
lead to many herbs. vitamins and food supplements being put on
a list of controlled substances and, as a result, available only by
prescription. Not only could this bill deny Canadians the right to
make their own health care choices, but non-traditional health
care workers could face criminal sanctions. Physicians are also
worried that the lack of clarity in clause 3 may leave them open
to charges of drug trafficking.
Honourable senators, in the interest of making sure that
Canadians are not saddled with an overreaching bill that affects
the ability of traditional and non-traditional health care workers
to provide quality care, would the Leader of the Government ask
the Minister of Health whether she is prepared to make
amendments to clarify the worrisome provision in Bill C-7?
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, I am prepared to convey my colleague's
comments and also to bring back from the minister any comfort
or reassurance that I can.

HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT
PROPOSED SOURCE OF FUNDING FOR CREATION OF
CHILD CARE SPACES-GOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. Brenda M. Robertson: Honourable senators, my
question is to the Leader of the Govemment in the Senate.
Recently, Minister Axworthy was quoted in the press
regarding a proposal for the creation of more child care spaces.
We know that in the near future health and higher education
portions of the Canada Assistance Plan will be rolled into block
funding. We also know that many of the spaces in provincial
daycare centres are supported by Canada Assistance Plan dollars.
When Minister Axworthy makes his announcement about a
federal contribution, will those dollars be in addition to the block
funding, or will the provinces have to take that daycare money
out of the block funding that we anticipate will come in the next
12 months?
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, I should like the opportunity to refer my
honourable friend's question to the minister for a more precise
answer than I can give today. This is an important issue.

AGRICULTURE
CANADIAN WHEAT BOARD-PROPOSED INCREASE IN INITIAL
PRICE OF GRAIN-GOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. Leonard J. Gustafson: Honourable senators will know
that in the last 10 years, international grain prices have risen to
an all-time high. Yet, farmers are only receiving around $3 for
their wheat. Has the Minister of Agriculture given any indication
as to when the government will increase the initial price of grain
to grain farmers? The cost of everything is rising. I hear that the
Canadian Wheat Board has quoted a price of $6 a bushel for

2119

grain. Surely it is time for action to be taken to increase the
amount of money farmers receive for selling their grain.
0

<14oo)

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, I am advised by my colleague Senator
Olson, an expert in these matters, that some increases were
announced last week. I will convey your questions to the
Minister of Agriculture and attempt to get more information on
what has been accomplished thus far, as weil as the minister's
plans for future pricing.
Senator Gustafson: Honourable senators, it is my
understanding that the Minister of Agriculture simply made some
statements about something that might be forthcoming. Playing
politics with such suggestions does nothing to put any money in
the farmers' pockets. We need to see the increase at the elevator.
Those of us who are active in agriculture know that such an
increase has not arrived.
Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators, with the comments
of both my colleagues in this house ringing in my ears, I will take
these words as notice, and I will bring word from the minister to
my colleagues.

ORDERS OF THE DAY
CORRECTIONS AND CONDITIONAL RELEASE ACT
CRIMINAL CODE
CRIMINAL RECORDS ACT
PRISONS AND REFORMATORIES ACT
TRANSFER OF OFFENDERS ACT
BILL TO AMEND-SECOND READING

On the Order:
Resuming the debate on the motion of the Honourable
Senator Pearson, seconded by the Honourable Senator
Poulin, for the second reading of Bill C-45, An Act to
amend the Corrections and Conditional Release Act, the
Criminal Code, the Criminal Records Act, the Prisons and
Reformatories Act and the Transfer of Offenders Act.
Hon. R. James Balfour: Honourable senators, I rise today to
speak to Bill C-45, to amend the Corrections and Conditional
Release Act and related statutes. As Senator Pearson has outlined
for us, the main provisions of this bill include: allowing
convicted sex offenders whose victims were children to be kept
in prison for their full sentences, a provision that at least
one-third of the second sentence in consecutive sentences must
be served before eligibility for parole, and instituting more
comprehensive measures for removing members of the National
Parole Board who are guilty of incompetence or unacceptable
behaviour.
I do not intend to speak at any length on this bill today. We
will have ample time to examine it in committee. However. it is
incumbent upon me to correct the impression left by Senator
Pearson's speech that this bill is sornehow the child of the Liberal

election book. The Corrections and Conditional Release Act was
first adopted by the Progressive Conservative government in
1992. It replaced the Penitentiary Act and Parole Act. This new
legislation made protection of the public the main consideration
in decisions involving the release of criminal offenders into
society.
In 1993, a further bill was introduced by the Conservatives
which would have permitted the National Parole Board to keep
high-risk sex offenders in prison indefinitely. That bill, however,
was never adopted. Bill C-45 is based in part on that 1993
proposal. It is also a comprehensive overhaul of the 1992
Corrections and Conditional Release Act.
Bill C-45, in other words, is part of a broader series of ongoing
improvements to the federal corrections system begun by the
previous Progressive Conservative government and not, as
Senator Pearson bas told us - I am sure not by design - a
purely Liberal measure.
Senator Pearson's comments in introducing this bill brought
two other points to my mind. The first relates to her claim that it
will help restore confidence in the corrections process. I am as
aware as anyone of the various sex-related cases which have
received high profile treatment in the media in the past couple of
years. However, I must admit that I fail to sec any link between
these cases and the apparent breakdown in our corrections
system. Possibly during our discussions in committee, Senator
Pearson will be able to enlighten us further.
The second point relates to the bill's apparent singling out of
children as a special category in regard to sexual offences. This
issue bas already been raised in the other place. It bas been
claimed that the government is, in effect, saying that sexual
attacks on adults are of a secondary or less important nature. I
was heartened to read Senator Pearson's remarks that this is not
the government's position, and that all sexual attacks are to be
condemned.
Honourable senators, Bill C-45 is a long bill. It contains many
technical amendments. It does not address basic precepts
underlying the detention of offenders. Rather. it deals with the
mechanics of their release. The aim, as L understand it, is to
improve the efficiency of the parole system and the National
Parole Board.
On first reading, I find many of the proposed changes timely
and well considered. L agyree, for instance, with the notion of
punishing recidivism, which L believe encourages a lack of
respect for our country's system of justice. The same is true for
those who violate the conditions of their parole.
On the other hand, as I sat and read through the bill the other
day, a number of questions came to my mind which should be
addressed in committee. Why bas the government failed to make
programs mandatory for the rehabilitation of people guilty of
sex-related crimes? Where are the provisions to properly
supervise offenders who have served their full time in prison, but
who still constitute a risk to society following their release? Why
are people who receive additional sentences for offences
committed while on parole not obliged to serve the full extent of
both sentences?

[ Senatoi

Balfour 1

Honourable senators, any piece of legislation could be
criticized ad infinituni. This is not my intention. However, you
will perhaps agree with me that issues such as sex crimes
involving children, programs designed to help reform those
guilty of such crimes and propositions to keep these people away
from society for long periods need to be discussed fully. When I
say fully, I mean by both sides of this chamber. These are issues
which affect us all. It is not a question of delaying the bill for the
sake of politics or partisanship. It is a question of balance.
We are today surrounded by a rising tide of rhetoric about the
supposed Americanization of our society, the rise in violent
crime, the weakness of our criminal justice system, and the need
to get tougher with offenders. Instances of poor judgment on the
part of prison or parole officials are often blown out of
proportion in order to prove a political point. Particular cases
such as the penitentiary - wherever it is - that bas a nine-hole
golf course for its inmates, are portrayed as the general rule.
I am not saying that there is not a grain of truth in much of
what is said. The justice and parole systems are not perfect.
However, it is extremely important that we take a moment to
separate the chaff from the grain. We must distinguish rhetoric
and prejudice from facts and realities. As legislators, we attempt
to find a moderate position somewhere between the demands of
those who would go too far and the equivocation of others who
would do too little. It is not an easy task, as you are al] well
aware.
This is especially true when we deal with contentious subjects
such as the sexual abuse of children. We must weigh the
arguments for retribution against those for compassion and
rehabilitation. Our deliberations must take place within the
context of the greatest good for the greatest number. As
individuals and as senators, we have responsibilities to society,
responsibilities which include keeping our streets and schools
safe for our children. We should be ready to support any measure
that, within reason and without excessive intrusiveness, furthers
this goal.
Honourable senators, Bill C-45 appears to be such a step. In
conclusion, I support the principle of this bill. It addresses an
issue which has become a subject of growing concern in our
communities in the past few years. It closes some important
loopholes which have allowed certain types of offenders to
escape the full rigour of the law. Finally, it continues along the
path laid out by the previous Conservative government by
maintaining the protection of the public as a primary
consideration in parole legislation.
Once in committee, we will be able to look more closely at the
different provisions of this bill, to question officials and to see if
this bill is as substantive as the government would have us
believe.
(1410)
a

The Hon. the Speaker pro tempore: Honourable senators. if
the Honourable Senator Pearson speaks now, her speech will
have the effect of closing the debate.

October 18, 1995

Ocoe 8 95SENATE

SENATE

Hon. Landon Pearson: Honourable senators, I move second
reading of this bill.
Motion agreed to and bill read the second time.
REFERRED TO COMMITTEE

The Hon. the Speaker pro tempore: Honourable senators,
when shall this bill be read the third time?
On motion of Senator Pearson, bill referred to the Standing
Senate Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs.
FIREARMS BILL
MOTION TO INSTRUCT COMMITrEE
TO TABLE FINAL REPORT, AS AMENDED, ADOPTED

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government) moved:
That it be an instruction of this House to the Standing
Senate Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs that
no later than Tuesday, November 7, 1995, it present its final
report to the Senate on Bill C-68, An Act respecting
firearms and other weapons, referred to it on June 22, 1995.
She said: Honourable senators, I move this motion today in
response to citizens across this country who want Parliament to
make up its mind on the crucial issue of gun control. I do not
think anyone in this house could deny - or would wish to deny
- the depth of concern among Canadians for safety and security
for themselves and for their families, and that concern takes in
every part of our society, every social and economic level, every
region of our country.
We all know the depths and the complexity of the roots of this
issue and the enormous challenges for all our institutions to
unravel those causes and the attitudes that they spawn. While
longer-term efforts to reach these causes accelerate, attention has
focused on strengthening means for protection through more
effective management of firearms, and tough penalties for those
who use them as tools to carry out their threats and their acts of
violence and, indeed, murder.
Gun control is now a centre point of public attention. The
purpose of my motion is to allow this chamber to come to a
decision in a timely fashion on Bill C-68, legislation which
would enact new gun control measures in a manner that is
balanced and fair to those who legitimately own and use
firearms.
The motion is not intended to prevent our standing committee
from carrying out its responsibilities. Rather, its sole purpose is
to strike a fair balance between the work of the committee with
its 12 members, the work of the Senate with its 104 members,
and the opportunity for those with strong views to be heard on
this issue.
This legislation now before us was many years in the making.
It is actually a piece of unfinished business flowing out of
Bill C-17, the most recent gun control legislation which was
given Royal Assent in this bouse in Decenber of 1991. At that

DEBATES

2121

DEBATES

2121

time, former Senator Nathan Nurgitz from Manitoba, then
chairman of the Standing Senate Committee on Legal and
Constitutional Affairs and the sponsor of the bill on behalf of the
then government, wrote to the Minister of Justice of the day, the
Honourable Kim Campbell, urging her to do even more. In that
letter of December 12, 1991, Mr. Nurgitz, speaking for himself
and his colleagues on the committee, said:
We feel that improvements in the three areas mentioned
-

firearms registration, safe storage and training -

would

not place an unfair burden on firearms owners or users. In
fact, these are areas in which further regulation would only
bring gun control into line with how we handle other
dangerous implements...
Honourable senators, I was a member of that committee at the
time, and was responsible for the bill on behalf of my colleagues
when we were in opposition. I can attest to the fact that both
sides worked very closely together to pass the legislation and to
come up with recommendations for further change, as noted by
Mr. Nurgitz, and that letter was our method of compromise to
advance passage of the bill without amendment at that time. The
committee was giving notice, unanimously, of its expectation for
further govemment action.
Following passage of that bill, there has been a growing
interest in the possibility of registering firearms in this country,
perhaps because advances in computer technologies have made it
a more practicable and feasible objective, and that interest in
further measures to control guns found its way into the last
election campaign. It was part of the platform of our party, and
was further brought forward at our convention in May of 1994, in
a resolution which included elements of the current bill,
including a national system of registration. The Prime Minister at
that time publicly declared this issue to be a high priority of his
government's agenda for the public safety of all Canadians, and
it remains so today.

I mention these points, honourable senators, simply to review
where this legislation began to develop, particularly as it is
relevant to the Senate, and how it has progressed in recent years
and months. After that convention, the Minister of Justice,
having travelled to all provinces and territories and talked with
groups of Canadians, tabled the government action plan on
firearms control.
Following another round of public discussions and
consultation, the Minister of Justice then introduced into the
House of Commons, on February 14 of this year, Bill C-68, an
act respecting firearms and other weapons. This bill was referred
to a legislative committee on April 5 of this year, and over the
following two months that committee heard 94 hours of
testimony from 62 witnesses. In response to many of the
concerns that were raised during those hearings, amendments
were brought forward by the govemment, both in committee and
at report stage, and more than 60 amendments were made to the
bill. These amendments were substantive, and not just cosmetic
changes: changes to do with aboriginal and treaty concerns,
constitutional concerns, concerns dealing with museums,
expanded grandfathering provisions, restrictions on the powers of
inspection, and much more.

The bill was given third and final reading in the House of
Commons on June 13, 1995. by a vote of 193 to 62. It then came
here to the Senate, and was referred to our Standing Senate
Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs on June 22.
During his speech on second reading, our colleague from Alberta
Senator Ron Ghitter said:
There is much work to be done by the committee. Many
individuals, groups and organizations will want to be heard
and are entitled to be heard.
We on this side agreed and, indeed, his comments led many of
us to anticipate an aggressive and active approach by the
committee to this bill.
The committee first met on June 27 to hear from the Minister
of Justice, and then the next day from the Canadian Association
of Chiefs of Police, the Canadian Police Association, and
Department of Justice officiais. These witnesses al] spoke out
very strongly in support of Bill C-68, but clearly there were other
voices on the other side of the issue asking to express their views
as well. When we adjourned on July 13, the Deputy Leader on
this side, Senator Graham, said:
I would like to express the hope that those committees
which have legislation and important issues before them
will sit when possible and appropriate during the summer
break...
* 142[fl

However, after the committee adjourned on June 28, it did not
meet again until September 18, almost three months later. During
that period of time a great number of witnesses perhaps could
have been heard, and certainly senators conducted their own
meetings and hearings over those months.
We on this side wanted the hearings to be held. There is
nothing whatsoever preventing a Senate committee from carrying
out its responsibilities during an adjournment period. as we saw
with the special committee inquiring into the Pearson Airport
Agreements, chaired by Senator MacDonald. There have been
numerous other examples over the last several years which show
that it is not unprecedented for our committees to carry out their
work while the Senate is in recess.
Honourable colleagues, this Senate is not overworked. Our
committees are quite capable of doing their job, even though the
house may be adjourned. Indeed, when our Legal and
Constitutional Affairs Committee reconvened on September 18,
it held nine days of very intensive hearings. It heard from
73 witnesses, which is more than were heard by the House of
Commons committee. However, at the end of those nine days,
the committee decided that it needed to hear from more
witnesses. The next meeting was held on October 5. when it was
to hear testimony on the constitutional ramifications of the bill.
More meetings have been scheduled for October 19 and 26 to
hear further testimony on constitutional issues.
One of the things which concerned us. honourable senators,
was that this schedule did not reflect some of the comments
made earlier in the summer by our colleague Senator Beaudoin.
who was reported in The Edmonton Journal as having said that
[ Senator Fairbairn ]

the committee expected to report back to the Senate by
mid-October. We are now in the middle of October and to date
there bas been no sign that the committee has begun to prepare
its report. In fact, indications are that the committee might not
report to this house until the end of November.
This week, my friend the Leader of the Opposition put out a
press release indicating that some senators have decided to meet
with Canadians in their regions during the week following
Remembrance Day. That release also indicated that the bill
should be disposed of by the full Senate no later than the end of
November.
Honourable senators, what has concerned those of us on this
side is that there is no certainty about conclusions being reached
on this bill. Everyone in this house knows that the legislation is
based on a startup date of January in order to begin the
registration process. There is no certainty that the House of
Commons will be given time to consider an amended bill - and
ail indications are, from those who have served on the
committee, that amendments are possible and even probable and return it to this house for a final vote before Christmas.
Clearly, that schedule could lead to the death of this
legislation. I do not believe that that is the fate that most
Canadians and perhaps even most senators would wish for this
gun control bill.
Honourable senators, our committee system has been
described as our strength. It does excellent work in a very serious
and conscientious manner. The Senate is also a legislative body.
It must be allowed to do its work, namely, to enact laws for the
betterment of Canadians.
In adopting Bill C-68, the members of the other place have
requested that Parliament pass a law strengthening the gun
control system. It is now our turn. Do we agree with the
proposal? Do we disagree? Whatever our views, we have an
obligation to make them known. This motion would give us the
opportunity to fulfil that obligation, while fully respecting the
role of the committee. which will still have ample opportunity to
complete the work it began on June 22. It will allow the members
of the Legal and Constitutional Affairs Committee to complete
their work and permit individual senators to hear additional
views on gun control within their provinces and their regions.
The committee will then report to the house so that the rest of us
will have the opportunity to express our views and cast our
votes - to pass it, amend it or, indeed, defeat it, if it is the will
of this house.
In ail, the Senate will have had more than four months to do
the job of simply getting the bill through the committee stage. I
think that is a generous period of time to carry out our
responsibilities.
As I have said, the sole purpose of this motion is to strike a
balance between the work of the committee and the
responsibilities of the Senate. I am. of course, open to other
suggestions from my colleagues about how that balance could
reasonably be achieved, either in this manner or in other ways.
Conversations have taken place between senators on both sides
of the bouse in an attempt to find a process to enable Parliament

October 18, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

to finish its work on a very important piece of legislation. That is
the kind of message Canadians should be able to count on from
their representatives in the Senate of Canada. I would welcome
hearing the thoughts and suggestions from my colleagues
opposite about any alternative ways in which this reassurance
could be provided to Canadians.
Hon. John Lynch-Staunton (Leader of the Opposition):
Honourable senators, it is indeed ironic, to say the least, that this
motion should be proposed by a member of the government,
who, while a member of the opposition in the majority here, for
years participated in the deliberate obstruction and delay of
major pieces of legislation of the Conservative government.
Who can fault the strategy of the Liberals when they were
numerically superior in opposition? How they revelled in
delaying legislation for the sake of delay and obstruction!
Compare that with the attitude of the opposition of the last two
years, and how constructively and positively it has behaved when
faced with some 70 pieces of govemment legislation which have
come to this chamber since the election in October 1993.
Of those 70-plus pieces of legislation which we have had to
deal with, only two have been held back deliberately for reasons
which were shared by many outside this chamber. I will not go
into the arguments behind why we held back Bill C-22 or
Bill C-69. They are well known, and at another time we can
discuss them in greater detail.
However, I want to take the opportunity of this motion to tell
this chamber, as forcefully as I can, that we are not holding back
Bill C-68. We are not delaying it unduly. We are coping with it in
the same way that we are called upon to cope with every piece of
legislation from the government. If it takes longer for one piece
than another, then we will take the time needed. I repeat, we are
not holding up Bill C-68 for the sake of holding it up, nor do we
have any intention of doing so. On the other hand, as I have said,
we cannot exempt it from the scrutiny that every bill requires,
and from taking the necessary time to do so.

2123

reason, the committee decided not to do so. However, many
senators on both sides feel an obligation to go out and meet those
concerned citizens to hear their support, their condemnation or
their suggestions regarding this bill. Surely, if there is any
responsibility of which we in this chamber must be respectful, it
is that of representing our regions. If senators are willing to
devote some of their time to carrying out their responsibilities in
their regions with regard to legislation, then they should be
encouraged to do so.
Senators who are keen on consulting in their regions feel that
the week of November 13 is the most appropriate because,
ordinarily, the Rememberance Day week is a week off for
Parliament. As such, senators would not be absent from their
duties in the Senate.
We also pledged to the govemment that no matter the result of
the committee's deliberations and the discussions in the regions,
the bill would be disposed of and ready to be sent to the House of
Commons by the end of November. If someone can claim that
this is undue delay, there certainly is undue exaggeration in that
claim.
The question has been asked: Is the Tory caucus against gun
control? The answer is an emphatic "No." As Senator Fairbairn
has pointed out, it was because of a Conservative government's
gun control legislation, introduced in the form of Bill C-80 and
Bill C-17, its successor, that Bill C-68 is before us today.
We know the emotions surrounding the issue, and we know
that, no matter which side we are on, things have to progress
slowly on it. It was thanks to the Conservative government at the
time that basic, forward-looking, intelligent gun control
legislation was introduced and passed.
I should like to quote from two members of the House of
Commons who spoke when Bill C-17 was introduced. The
Minister of Justice, Ms Campbell, said at the time:
Madam Speaker, the purpose of Bill C-80

-

*(1430)

-

As Senator Fairbairn has pointed out, the bill came to us in
June. It went to the committee at the end of June. Senator
Fairbairn forgot to mention that the committee also sat in July on
the Pearson bill. It also sat on Bill C-68 in September, during a
recess. It took August off. I would have urged its members to
take off a little longer, for, if any committee of this chamber in
the last two years has had to cope with more legislation of
significant importance than any other, it is the Legal and
Constitutional Affairs Committee. The chairman and its members
deserve a lot of credit for what they have done, and for how well
they have done it.
Hon. Senators: Hear, hear!

that was the predecessor of Bill C-17

-

was to provide better protection for all Canadians against
firearms violence, while avoiding undue or unnecessary
interference in the activities of Canadians who use guns
legally, responsibly and safely.

-

The legislation now before this House contains a number
of modifications to Bill C-80, but the fundamental purpose
remains the same.
On behalf of the Liberal opposition, the member for Cape
Breton-The Sydneys, Russell MacLellan, said on June 6, 1991:

Senator Lynch-Staunton: Therefore, I repeat, I do not
consider that any undue delay can be attached to our approach to
this bill.

The objective of this legislation is to control access to
firearms and ammunition in Canada and not to place
excessive or undue restrictions on responsible gun owners. I
think that has been achieved.

We found that many witnesses who wanted to appear before
the Legal and Constitutional Affairs Committee. both for and
against. could not come for one reason or another. Many in our
caucus had hoped that the committee could travel. For whatever

That was the achievement of Bill C-17 at the time. The
question before us today is: Has the same basic purpose been
achieved: that is, not to place excessive or undue restriction on
responsible gun owners? That is the question which is troubling

us. That is the question which is being debated in our caucus and
across the country. It is not the question of gun control per se. If
there is an argument about the gun control feature, it could well
be that it is not strict enough. Some of us in our caucus and
elsewhere feel that in accepting certain features of the bill, an
undue burden is being placed on innocent citizens. There are
many innocent bystanders out there who are challenging this bill.
They are museums, collectors, shooting clubs and so many more
for whom a gun is everything but a murder weapon. They resent
being identified with a criminal class, and they have reason to
protest.
There are other reasons for concern in this bill which go
beyond gun control and registration. The ministerial discretion
being given in this bill is not unlike that seen in any other
legislation, but I would say it is extremely excessive. For
instance. the minister. by himself, can decide to declare a weapon
prohibited without any consultation.
There is also the question of minimum
to the bill, if you are found for a second
weapon registered, the minimum sentence
to one year; it is a minimum sentence.
cause for concern.

sentencing. According
time not to have your
is one year. It is not up
That alone should be

There are no requirements that any regulations flowing from
this bill be reviewed by Parliament. Ordinarily, they are
published in the Canada Gazette, and Parliament can ask to see
them. Parliament has a certain time in which to review them.
Whether their review is of any effect is another question, but at
least they can be reviewed. In this case, there is no provision for
regulations to be reviewed.
There is also the question of the respect for native people's
rights under the Constitution.
To repeat, there are some basic concerns in this bill which go
beyond the immediate intent of the bill itself.
Honourable senators, let me be clear. Our concern, and the
concern of many other Canadians with this bill, is not gun control
as such, but the imposition of regulations and restrictions on
law-abiding citizens, the concentration of powers in the
executive and a further withering away of the power of the
legislature.
We suggested that we could have everything wrapped up in
this chamber by the end of November. The govemment suddenly
says, "Oh, that is not good enough for us. We want the committee
to report by November 7." There is not much difference between
reporting the bill to this chamber by November 7 and having it
dealt with in the House of Commons by November 30. The time
it would take to get from the report stage to the voting stage
would bring us pretty close to November 30 anyway, unless the
government intends to restrict debate by imposing closure.
Be that as it may, I urge honourable senators to respect the
decision of their colleagues on this side, in particular - and I
have no doubt colleagues on the other side as well - who want
to go to their respective regions to consult with citizens who have
a particular interest in this bill. As I said. they decided that the
week of November 13 was most practical because. usually, that
week is a week when we would iot be sitting. I understand that
[ Senator Ly nchi-Staunton

I

meeting arrangements are being made already for that week. I
understand that some of them can be changed. However, I cannot
guarantee that.
The point is that many of our colleagues would like those days
to hear from concerned citizens and groups who, for whatever
reason, did not or could not appear before the House of
Commons or the Senate committees. I think we must respect
that, and I urge that it be respected because colleagues on both
sides feel strongly that they must continue their consultations
before coming to a final decision.
a

144o)

In a continuation of the respect that we have for the role that
the opposition should play in this chamber - contrary to the
sorry example set by our friends opposite when they were in
opposition - and in answer to the leader's invitation for
suggestions, I should like to make an amendment to her motion.
I am convinced that it will respect the timetable of our colleagues
and, at the same time, it will respect the government's desire,
which I fully understand, to have this bill dealt with by a date
which will enable it to be disposed of by the House of Commons
before the Christmas recess.
MOTION IN AMENDMENT

Hon. John Lynch-Staunton (Leader of the Opposition):
Therefore, I move, seconded by Senator Kinsella:
That the motion be amended by replacing all the words
after "House" with the following:
That Bill C-68, An Act respecting Firearms and other
Weapons, referred to the Standing Senate Committee on
Legal and Constitutional Affairs on Thursday, June 22.
1995, be reported back to the Senate no later than
Monday, November 20, 1995; and
That at 5:30 p.m. on Wednesday, November 22, 1995, any
proceedings before the Senate shall be interrupted and all
questions necessary to dispose of all remaining stages of
the said Bill shall be put forthwith without further debate
or amendment, and that any votes on any of those
questions not be further deferred.
Simply put, the motion in amendment requires that the
committee report no later than November 20, and that the bill
itself be voted on at 5:30 p.m. on Wednesday, November 22.
The Hon. the Speaker pro tempore: Is it your pleasure,
honourable senators, to adopt the motion in amendment?
Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourable senators, there have been discussions
on both sides of the bouse over a considerable period of time.
The points made by Senator Fairbaim in her notice of motion,
and in speaking to that notice of motion, are understood on both
sides of the house and. indeed, by the Canadian public.
I wish to make reference to several of the matters that have
been put forward by the Leader of the Opposition, particularly
with respect to the decision ofthe Standing Senate Committee on
Legal and Constitutional Affairs not to travel. I know that

SENATE DEBATES

October 18, 1995

lengthy and detailed consideration was given to that particular
proposal. but I would remind ail honourable senators that the
majority on the committee come from the opposition. Indeed, it
was a decision that was concurred with by a majority in the
opposition with respect to whether the committee would travel as
a whole.
Whether the committee was doing its work in a timely fashion
is a matter of conjecture and opinion. I commend the Standing
Senate Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs
Committee, which is the busiest committee in the Senate. Having
said that, there are times, and have been times, when we on this
side believe that the committee could have been sitting.
It is commendable that senators wish to go into their own areas
and have individual meetings with concerned citizens so that
concerns can be expressed by Canadians no matter where they
live. Having said that, honourable senators, I believe that there is
a will on this side to support the amendment as proposed by the
Leader of the Opposition.
The Hon. the Speaker pro tempore: Is it your pleasure,

honourable senators, to adopt the motion in amendment?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
The Hon. the Speaker pro tempore: The amendment is
carried.
Is the house ready for the question on the motion as amended?
Is it your pleasure, honourable senators, to adopt the motion as
amended?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Motion agreed to, as amended.
AGRICULTURAL TRADE

2125

At the beginning of this Parliament, the House Standing
Committee on Agriculture and Agri-food and the Standing
Senate Committee on Agriculture and Forestry undertook a set of
hearings together. We had hoped to complete a rather ambitious
program of hearings which would have given the two committees
together an opportunity to make a fairly comprehensive report on
ail aspects of Canadian agriculture.
We consulted widely in the course of hearings here in Ottawa.
As well, the committee had proposed to travel to almost every
province and to try an innovative technique of obtaining opinion
called the "kitchen table" approach. Unfortunately, through no
fault of anyone on this side of Parliament, we were unable to do
that. The committee of the other place was unable to obtain the
necessary budget to travel. Accordingly, having heard
approximately 100 witnesses, the ambitious work that we had
planned was curtailed.
We did, however, table the report in December in anticipation
of the budget. The committee's December 1994 report, done in
conjunction with the Standing Committee on Agriculture and
Agri-food of the other place, and entitled "New Realities and
Tough Choices: From Agriculture to Agri-food," acknowledged
the challenges posed by the globalization of trade. It was, in part,
from this perspective that the committee travelled in March to
Washington, D.C., to discuss the new realities and tough choices
that will also be faced by the United States, our principal trading
partner and, in many instances, our most important competitor.
The committee also visited Winnipeg in May to speak with
farm organizations and the Canadian Wheat Board about the new
realities and tough choices they are facing. At these latter
meetings, much of the discussion focused on the Canadian Wheat
Board.
Honourable senators, I will break my comments into two parts,
the first dealing with our relations generally with the United
States.
(1450)

REPORT OF AGRICULTURE AND FORESTRY COMMITrEE ON
FACT-FINDING MISSIONS TO WASHINGTON AND WINNIPEG

The Senate proceeded to consideration of the eleventh report
of the Standing Senate Committee on Agriculture and Forestry
(special study on agricultural trade), tabled on July 26,

1995.-(HonourableSenator Hays).

Hon. Dan Hays: Honourable senators, I should like to speak
to this order today. I have a prepared text which, if I am not
mistaken, will take me a little beyond the normal time allowed
for these interventions. However, Your Honour will, of course,
advise me, and we will see whether I will be able to make ail of
the remarks that I wish to make today.
The Hon. the Speaker pro tempore: If the honourable senator
wishes, rather than interrupt him later, I could ask now for
permission for him to continue somewhat beyond the allotted
time.
Is that agreed, honourable senators?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Senator Hays: Thank you. If I impose too much. I will expect
strong heckling at that point.

Canada-United States trade, in goods of ail kinds, represents
approximately $1 billion per day. With annual agricultural
exports totalling slightly more than $8 billion and imports of
roughly $7 billion, Canada enjoys a growing trade surplus with
the United States. However, agricultural trade between Canada
and the U.S. is often the object of disputes. As pointed out by
some witnesses appearing before the committee, trading nations
will always have occasional border problems, even under free
trade agreements. Where the interests of competing sectors
coincide with those of competing countries - the grain sectors
in the United States and Canada, for example - the harmful
effects can take the form of protectionism, defensive industrial
policies or further bilateralism to keep potential competitors out
of the market.
Honourable senators, during its study the committee concluded
that one of the reasons for the prompt reaction of the U.S.
Congress to Canada-U.S. trade disputes is the fact that
32 per cent of U.S. senators and 38 per cent of members of the
House of Representatives come from states situated along
Canada's border. This political weight results in strong and rapid
reactions.
The Congress is currently examining the 1995 U.S. Farm Bill.
which is the cornerstone of aIl U.S. agricultural programs and

policies. including price supports. trade. research, domestic tood
aid. tarmn credit. rural development and environmental activities.
The Farm Bill is revised and renewed every l'ive years and.
thereby, requires U.S. politicians to conduct a caretul
examination and evaluation of agricultural policies. an exercise
that is flot parallel to Canada.
Honourable senators, U.S. trading partners must be well aware
of the implications of the policies established by the Farm Bill.
since U.S. programs and policies. such as the Export
Enhancement Program or EEP, often have major and detrimental
impacts on domestic markets and policies. While the impact of
the Export Enhancement Program on Canada's grain markets is
well known. other U.S. programs which are currently under
review and which have major repercussions on Canada are less
well known.
[Translation]J
For example. the soils conservation program is one of the
American farmn policies that could well upset some of Canada's
agricultural sectors. Cuvrently, approximately 36 million acres,
about 10 per cent of American arable land area. are under
protection. This measure has resulted in a 20 per cent reduction
in erosion. Although considered a success. this environmental
protection measure costs a total of $2 billion annually in public
funds.

The administration would like to see a reduction of' the
domestic content level necessary to qualify for an export credit
program, but. at the same time. it would offer credit guarantees
only on the American content portion of a processed agricultural
produet. The combined effect of these two measures would be to
increase the range of agricultural products that could be exported
through an export credit program. while promoting exports of
higher value-added agricultural products. As the Canadian
Exporters' Association informed the committee in Ottawa.
'*international competition can sometimes boil down to thatwho is prepared to extend the most generous credit terms?"
The committee sees an opportunity for Canada to do more
with the $ I-billion credit program announced as part of the
elimination of the WGTA by incorporating into its own export
credit program relevant elements of the U.S. export credit
program.
[Translation]
Even if it keeps within the limits set by the Uruguay Round,
the United States certainly has no intention ot totall\ eliminating
its farmn price and income support programs. The Ainericans are
well aware that these programs are far from being properly
decoupled.
[En glish i

[En glishi
In the case of' the 36 million acres under protection. some
analysts predict that additional production totalling 34 million
tonnes of wheat could be achieved. By reducing the protected
areas to 25 million acres, U.S. exports could increase by
1.3 million tonnes. This is somiething that is under discussion and
may happenl. These additional 1.3 million tonnes of grain
corresponds to Canada*s average annual wheat exports to the
United States between 1991 and 1994. In border states such as
Montana and North Dakota. it is estimated that some 9 million
acres of farm land set aside and traditionally given over to wheat
cultivation could be returned to production. If this scenario
becomes reality. it will result in tougher U.S. competition in
world markets, indeed even in the North American market. For
that reason. the committee recommended that Canada react
immediately to any substantial decrease in areas under the U.S.
Conservation Reserve Program through aggressive grain
marketing strategies in order to secure and increase its market
share.
[Translation]
As a result of agreements reached under the Uruguay Round,
the United States will have to change its Export Enhancement
Program. but it will not stop promoting its exports. One approach
consists in making credit programis available in order to help
countries that would otherwise be unable to buy Amenican farmi
products.
The Anierican administration is currently looking at an
innovative approach to niaking these credit progran1s nmore
efficient.

1Senalor

[En glishl

1,u

In that context. it is worth noting that in its Farm Bill proposaI.
the U.S. administration even referred to Canada's Net Income
Stabilization Account (NISA) and recommended that a pilot
stabilization program be tried along those fines. That is the
reason why the committee recommended that Canada make it
known to a greater degree intemnationally that its larm income
support programs are decoupled and thus trade-neutral.
Honourable senators. 1 should hike now to tum to the second
aspect of' the study we tabled this summer - the Canadian
Wheat Board.
A number of organizations. including the Western Canadian
Wheat Growers Association. the United Grain Growers and the
Western Barley Growers Association. have advocated changes to
the Canadian Wheat Board. It was therefore not surprising that
the Wheat Growers Association continued to recommend this
course of action when it met with the committee in Winnipeg.
The association has a long history ot supporting increased
flexibility to enable Prairie farmers to, market their own wheat
and barley. It believes the board must be reformed in order to
operate effectively and thereby better serve the needs of Prairie
tarmers.
Honourable senators. changes in the global marketplace have
shown a trend away from state buying and selling agencies and
toward liberalization. World trade is becoming increasingly
diverse with a multitude of buyers and requirements. These are
reasons for the position that the Canadian Wheat Growers
Association espouses with great vigour. They question whether
our currenf systemi of rnarketinel k the best means of meeting the
demnands Of SuIch a diverse. dynamîic and highly comipelti \C

October 18, 1995

October 18, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

SENATE DEBATES

marketplace. Furthermore, the association believes that the
emergence of identity-preserved production and various contract
arrangements require direct contact between the grower and end
user, a matter which is quite controversial, particularly in the
context of the Wheat Board's principle, which is the pooling of
grain accounts. The Wheat Growers Association says that the
Wheat Board bas been an impediment to value-added processing
and is not always the best means of gaining access to a given
market. The board's pricing practices are, as we know, a source
of trade friction with the United States, and similar problems
could arise with other countries. Moreover, with the elimination
of the Western Grain Transportation Act, the association believes
that Canadian farmers must have greater access to the U.S.
market and distribution channels, another controversial matter
over which there is much argument. Finally, the association has
argued that the current marketing system fails to respect the
various points of view held by farmers on the issue of
compulsory participation in price pooling.
In hearings in Ottawa in November 1994, the association
expressed their preference for a market-oriented marketing
system and a reformed Canadian Wheat Board.
0

(150o)

Then there are those who support the Canadian Wheat Board,
such as Prairie Pools Incorporated and our Senate committee,
which has tabled its report. The committee has taken this position
because it believes that there are advantages in consolidating
returns from board grain sales into one fund and distributing the
proceeds equitably among farmers. We believe the system as
presently constituted respects the goals of those who pressured
the federal govemment to establish a Canadian Wheat Board in
the first instance.
The committee believes that now, as then, the Canadian Wheat
Board, by maximizing returns on the pool, is a valuable riskmanagement tool for producers. The Canadian Wheat Board also
provides other benefits. It undertakes long-term marketing
research and development activities that benefit the entire
industry and provides after-sales service to its customers. It also
operates a sophisticated crop and weather surveillance system.
These functions may not be easily, efficiently or effectively
performed by individual farmers selling their own grain, or by
anyone other than the very largest of private grain companies.
In the committee's opinion, there is an important distinction to
be made between the selling of grain and the marketing of grain.
Many producers tend to confuse the two. The Wheat Board
markets grain. Most producers have a choice in selling grain, but
marketing by the Wheat Board is unique in Canada with respect
to the grains on which they have a monopoly selling privilege. In
terms of the United States, many large companies, while they are
buyers of grain, do not conduct the marketing of that product.
Certainly, Canada and the Canadian Wheat Board must
respond to the challenges and opportunities brought about by
specialized markets, changing market locations and changing
trading partners, among other things. The committee believes
that, with appropriate changes and adaptations, the Canadian
Wheat Board can continue to serve Prairie farmers. Renewing
this major agricultural institution will not be an easy task. It
should be donc gradually. with great care and in response to the

2127
2127

wishes of western grain farmers, rather than U.S. political
pressure.
The committee supports the concept of a renewed Canadian
Wheat Board but does not support the concept of simply moving
to dual marketing as suggested by the Western Canadian Wheat
Growers Association, upon whose position I elaborated earlier. In
the committee's opinion, the board must be renewed and
revitalized, rather than threatened with elimination. If the
Canadian Wheat Board were to cease to exist, it is possible. if
not likely, that existing international grain markets would be
served by large grain-marketing organizations outside of Canada.
beside which the Canadian Wheat Board is a very small entity
indeed.
The sales of one of the largest grain companies, Cargill, are
about $50 billion. Cargill is a private company and, interestingly,
not very transparent. The Canadian Wheat Board's international
sales would amount to something like $4 billion. Without the
Canadian Wheat Board, Canadian farmers' sales would likely be
integrated into such giant companies. Prairie grain producers
would lose much sovereign control over their vested interest in
maximizing their returns. Ultimately, the result could be lowered
market share and market returns for producers as traditional
customers are lost. In the committee's view, the board must
continue to exist for these and other reasons.
A number of surveys conducted among Prairie producers have
indicated widespread and increasing support for the Canadian
Wheat Board. Widespread support also exists for a plebiscite
among Western Canadian grain farmers before any significant
changes are made to the authority or role of the board.
The committee believes that the Canadian Wheat Board offers
a valuable service and bas greater marketing power than do
independent producers. Certainly, there are areas where the board
could improve its operations. A recent survey bas revealed that a
majority of farmers would like more information from the board
on markets and on the board's operations. The farmers should
play a larger role in directing the board and in setting its goals
and strategies. The committee made recommendations in both
these areas.
The Canadian Wheat Board told the committee of its recent
initiatives to provide better service and to be more responsive,
accountable and visible, primarily to farmers but also to the
public and to the grain industry. The committee believes that
accountability to farmers, the board's stakeholders, must be an
ongoing priority for the Canadian Wheat Board. However, much
more needs to be done to provide producers, particularly young
farmers, with information on the board, its role, its structure and
its advantages as a market. For this reason, the committee
recommended enhanced efforts by the board to provide
comprehensive and complete information to Prairie farmers
about markets, the board's performance, and other related
matters.
Moreover, the committee believes that the Canadian Wheat
Board Advisory Committee, a group which comprises
11 members elected by farmers. should play an enhanced role.
The advisory committee currently advises the board on issues
and policy matters related to its operations. It also provides
communication between the board and western grain farmers.

Our committee feels that the advisory committee should have
more input into setting the Canadian Wheat Board's goals and
priorities by providing the board with ongoing advice about the
types of information needed by farmers. It should play a role in
establishing the type of incremental change to the board that will
be needed over time to meet producers' needs and to ensure
sensitivity to market changes. From this perspective, our
committee recommends an amendment to the Canadian Wheat
Board Act to strengthen the role of the advisory committee. It
also recommends that the federal govemment establish a means
by which the board is accountable to this strengthened advisory
committee.
Honourable senators, the Canadian Wheat Board is a fairly
rigid structure, a fact that can cause problems when attempts are
made to address organizational problems. We recommend that
the advisory board, with assistance, with enhancement and with
necessary changes, should play the role of an ongoing "panel of
experts," now appointed by the Minister of Agriculture, which
can be consulted for problem-solving. Rather than operating in
an ad hoc manner, changes should be made on an ongoing basis
through continuing consultation with the advisory committee.
Finally, the committee believes that the Prairie producers, as
shareholders - clients, if you will - of the board, should
determine the role and structure of the Canadian Wheat Board
through a comprehensive survey of Prairie farmers. The Senate
committee recommends that the Canadian Wheat Board
Advisory Committee conduct such a survey, with the federal
government providing any needed assistance, financial or
otherwise. Following an analysis of the survey results, the
advisory committee should identify any issues on which
plebiscites should be held among Prairie farmers.
Continual adaptation is necessary if the Canadian Wheat
Board is to survive and continue to serve Prairie farmers well.
The board should constantly explore new ways of operating and
new opportunities such as value-added processing. Certainly, to
the greatest extent possible, Canadians should add value to our
agricultural products for domestic use and export, rather than
import, processed goods.
Now is a time of new realities. As grain markets change,
customers become more exacting; new trade agreements require
tough choices to be made. Together with its shareholders stakeholders, farmers, clients, Prairie producers - the Canadian
Wheat Board must make the tough choices for the future to
safeguard Canada's position as a major supplier of consistently
high quality grain.
Hon. Leonard J. Gustafson: Honourable senators, I would
commend Senator Hays for his very full report of the
committee's work. The committee members enjoyed an excellent
working relationship under his fine chairmanship.
Over the past year, agriculture bas seen the reality of the tough
choices, some of them made by the Minister of Transport. that
will change agriculture forever in Western Canada. We do not
know now the long-term effects of these changes.
151(,
0 '

I have one regret. The joint committee never travelled. Senator
Hays and conmittee menibers from the Senate felt it was
[ Senator Hay.

1

important to get out into the regions and hear about the problems
first hand. For whatever reason, the House of Commons did not
support that view. We in the Senate should learn from that
mistake. It never hurts to hear the people. That is why we are
here.
On the bright side, agriculture today is facing some increased
prices. Sir Leonard Tilley once said that if we destroy the farms,
grass will grow in every street of every city of the nation. We in
North America have always had a strong agricultural
background, which bas been beneficial for all of Canada.
Because I am a fourth generation farmer, you would expect me to
say that, but I cannot stress enough the importance to every
single Canadian of retaining our strong agricultural base.
Farmers now represent only 2.5 per cent of our population.
Markets are changing worldwide. We are into a global economy.
North America is becoming a common market. Senator Hays
mentioned our meeting in Washington. It was constructive for
congressmen and senators to come together and agree that
political bickering and undercutting to protect our national biases
must stop. We all understand that you cannot have farmers going
broke and still maintain our strong agricultural background. It
just cannot happen.
We must realize the importance of cooperating in the best
interests of agriculture. I am encouraged by what I hear from
Washington about our struggles over grain, particularly durum
wheat. The Americans are agreeing to deal with the realities and
to forget the politicking. They have changed their tune a little
since last year because now they need our durum wheat.
Sometimes. the weather deals with farmers and politicians.
We held a good round of discussions in Winnipeg regarding
the Canadian Wheat Board. Our report leaves no doubt that we
stand in support of the Wheat Board. Perhaps I am the odd man
out on the committee because I do believe the board needs to
take a new look at new opportunities, at the changing world and
the changing farm economy. In my opinion, dual marketing
would not hurt; it may broaden their vision and their
opportunities in such crops as canola, which, in terms of
production, is now second to wheat in Western Canada.
Canadians should capitalize on this, rather than waiting around
while the Americans steal the market from us.
I spoke recently to a seed-grower from Southern Alberta who
has planted 15,000 acres of hybrid canola, which can produce up
to 60 bushels per acre. This canola is already being planted in
Montana. We have had a captive market in Canada, and now we
need to be on the cutting edge and take every advantage we can
for our Canadian farmers and wheat boards. This may mean a
change in our approach to agriculture, but I am confident in our
abilities.
Thank you for your cooperation. I am sure you will agree that
the Senate, by this committee report, has made a meaningful
contribution to the future of agriculture in this country.
The Hon. the Speaker pro teipore: Honourable senators, if
no other senator wishes to speak on this matter. it is considered
debated.
Debate concluded.

SENATE DEBATES

October 18, 1995

BUSINESS OF THE SENATE
Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourable senators, today being Wednesday,
our usual committee day, there are committees scheduled to sit

this afternoon. Senator Oliver has a motion as Chairman of the
Standing Senate Committee on Transport and Communications.
If there is agreement, we will stand all other inquiries, motions,
and reports to allow Senator Oliver to speak to his motion, after
which we will entertain a motion for adjournment.
Hon. Noël A. Kinsella: Honourable senators, we on this side
agree with that suggestion.
TRANSPORT AND COMMUNICATIONS
CANADA'S INTERNATIONAL COMPETITIVE POSITION IN
TELECOMMUNICATIONS-MOTION TO AUTHORIZE COMMITTEE TO
EXTEND DATE OF FINAL REPORT ON SPECIAL STUDY ADOPTED

Hon. Donald H. Oliver,
October 17, 1995, moved:

pursuant

to notice

of

That notwithstanding its order of reference of
April 5, 1995, the Standing Senate Committee on Transport
and Communications be authorized to continue its special
study on Canada's international competitive position in
telecommunications; and
That the Committee present its report no later than
March 29, 1996.
He said: Honourable senators, I promised Senator Graham I
would not be more than two minutes, but I do want to put on the
record the justification for this requested extension.
The Standing Senate Committee on Transport and
Communications is requesting the extension of its report date
until March 29, 1996, for two principal reasons. At the end of
April, shortly after our committee received the order of reference

2129

from the Senate for the special study, the govemment issued its
proposed orders on direct-to-home satellite broadcasting.
Pursuant to the Broadcasting Act, the Standing Senate
Committee on Transport and Communications had the
opportunity to examine the proposed orders but had to do so
within 40 sitting days of Parliament, after which time the
government could implement the proposed orders as it saw fit.
Our committee spent most of May and early June hearing
witnesses on the proposed orders, in an effort to present the
report before the 40-day deadline. Unfortunately, this prevented
the committee from devoting itself to the special study in
telecommunications, as originally planned. Most of the hearings
planned for the spring will now be taking place this fall.
In addition, we have planned fact-finding missions to
Washington, D.C., and London, England. Plans are well under
way for travel to Washington in mid-November. However, we
have been informed by the British Parliament that, due to the
reopening of Parliament in November, their committees are not
likely to be reconstituted before the end of January next year.
9 (1520)

An important part of our visit to London will consist of
meetings with our British counterparts. For example, the British
House of Commons Committee on Trade and Commerce bas
completed a study on optical fibre networks. The House of Lords
Committee on Science and Technology is about to begin a study
on the information superhighway, and the British Parliament has
an office of Science and Technology. Therefore, in order to carry
out our hearings in Ottawa and our visit to London with a view to
preparing as complete a report as possible, the committee is
requesting an extension of the report date to March 29, 1996.
The Hon. the Speaker pro tempore: Is it your pleasure,

honourable senators, to adopt the motion?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Motion agreed to.

The Senate adjourned until tomorrow at 2 p.m.

THE SENATE
Thursday, October 19, 1995
The Senate met at 2:00 p.m.. the Speaker pro ten2pore in the
Chair.
Prayers.

SENATORS' STATEMENTS
HALIFAX MKVII BOMBER
RECOVERY AND RENOVATION OF AIRCRAFT SUNK
IN LAKE MJOSA, NORWAY, DURING WORLD WAR Il
Hon. John Sylvain: Honourable senators, last May, at the
fiftieth anniversary of VE Day, I was able to tell you of a project
that I was supporting to raise a Halifax bomber from a
Norwegian fiord where it had lain for 50 years after it had been
shot down during World War II.
I am delighted to be able to tell you that due to the support and
encouragement of the government, of a number of Canadian
companies, and of many of you here in the chamber, as well the
members of the Halifax Bomber Association, the aircraft has
been raised. It was brought up 700 feet from its cold, watery
resting place and found to be in remarkably good condition.
Through the efforts of the Norwegian government and many
support groups in Norway and in Canada, it now rests on a beach
to be disassembled, loaded into cargo aircraft, and flown back
to Canada.
At the Trenton Aircraft Museum, teams of enthusiastic
volunteers will reconstruct the aircraft from spare parts located
from around the world. Even with much volunteer work, this will
still be a costly process and worthy of your continued financial
support.
Honourable senators, at the end of the process, we will have in
Canada the only World War Il Halifax bomber in the world, as a
tribute to our Canadian airmen who flew them with valour and
honour.
[Translation]

FRANCOPHONES OUTSIDE QUEBEC
INCREASE IN POPULATION-PROMOTION OF FRENCH LANGUAGE
IN CONCERT WITH FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
Hon. Jean-Robert Gauthier: Honourable senators, on
Tuesday, a Bloc member told the other place that francophones
outside Quebec were history. Another Bloc member stated that
only a sovereign Quebec will constitute the anchor point for all
francophones.
Honourable senators. according to Statistics Canada. in spite
of a slight drop in percentage, the number of francophones

outside Quebec has increased. In fact, there are about one million
Canadians outside Quebec whose mother tongue is French and
nearly 2.5 million French-speaking Canadians. More than two
million students are currently enrolled in French as second
language programs in grade schools and high schools outside
Quebec, as compared to a mere 1.4 million in 1977. Last year,
enrolment in French immersion courses exceeded 300,000. There
are 696 francophone primary and secondary public schools
outside Quebec.
French Canada outside Quebec can also pride itself on making
significant contributions to French Canadian cultural life. It has
produced the likes of Édith Butler, Roch Voisine, Gabrielle Roy,
Daniel Lavoie, Hart Rouge and Antonine Maillet.
Admittedly the assimilation rate is on the rise. Mr. Bouchard.
the Bloc leader, even offered an explanation. He has his, and I
have mine. Instead of separating, we should be joining forces to
ensure the survival of the francophone community as a whole in
Canada. Promoting the French language across Canada is the
best way of ensuring its survival.
Through the federal government, francophones are represented
nationally and internationally. They play a role and exert an
influence that is the best guarantee that the French language, as
well as the Quebec and French Canadian culture, will be
preserved.
[En glish]

THE SENATE
CIVIC CONTRIBUTIONS OF MEMBERS PAST AND PRESENT
Hon. Richard J. Doyle: Honourable senators, Richard Stolley
was an editor of People magazine which, as we all know, is
published south of here. Mr. Stolley was known for his candour
about the things he did lor a living. Here is an example:
What we think we know is that young sells better than old,
pretty sells better than ugly, sports figures don't do very
well, TV sells better than music, music does better than
movies, and anything does better than politics.
I thought of that quotation last month while I was shaking off
the tremors induced by Ottawa's local paper in one of its
occasional flirtations with the Senate.
The Senate? I should say, as the paper did, "party hacks and
bagmen of the Conservative caucus" who had just "been revealed
as a powerful. unelected body of partisan failures, flatterers and
pleaders for special interests." And what had the Senate done?
"Once again proved itself to be a useless nuisance."
The Leader of the Opposition in the Senate has the gift of
seeing the humour in such free-verse pleading. Because of my
background. I need more potent antidotes. and I would he happy

October 19, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

SENATE DEBATES

October 19, 1995

to share one of them today for the amelioration of others who
may be in need. All I do is summon up pictures of colleagues or, if you will, other "sensitive nuisances" who have passed or
are passing this way without apology for their grand
accomplishments on the public's behalf.
Honourable senators, the first name to come to mind was Staff
Barootes who, until two years ago, was chairman of the Standing
Senate Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. His name rang a
bell because several hundred people were gathering in Regina
last month to toast his health and wish him well in his next
career. They came to talk of his accomplishments as an advocate
of veterans' causes. They came from medical associations to
cheer him as a specialist and officer of professional
organizations. Good grief! Even Liberals came to praise his
citizenship.
I had scarcely completed my review of Barootes' triumphs in
and out of politics when another senator from the world of
medicine appeared on my TV screen.
e (1410)

You, too, may have seen the pictures this week of his
participation in the Canadian artificial heart program's latest
adventure in developing a high-technology, implantable
ventricular assist device.
That is a serious description of a contraption that is held
magnetically on a patient's chest while connected to a liquid
crystal display box, no bigger than a pacer, which can be hooked
through a phone line to a computer. Thus data is sent to a
specialist anywhere in the world. Aha! That doctor can then
monitor and adjust the heartbeat without seeing the patient.
Doctors in this Ottawa project - such as one key figure,
Senator Wilbert Keon - will tell you that a $15 phone call may
be used to replace a $2,000 hospital stay, because of the progress
being made in perfecting and manufacturing the functionally
proven artificial heart prototype into a commercialized unit for
human implantation.
This week, Canada's Minister of Industry pledged $5.5 million
toward the cost of the project directed by CAE Electronics of
St. Laurent and the Heart Institute. Not bad for a project led by a
"nuisance."
With antidotes like these...
[Later]

JOHNNY MILES
CAPE BRETON MARATHONERTRIBUTES ON NINETIETH BIRTHDAY

Hon. John Buchanan: Honourable senators, I rise today to
pay tribute to a great Cape Bretonner, Nova Scotian and
Canadian. Johnny Miles, who will be celebrating his ninetieth
birthday on October 30, 1995.
Johnny Miles was born in 1905. At the age of l he went to
work in a coal mine to help support his family while his father

went off to war. At the age of 17, he ran his first road race, a
three-mile run through the streets of Sydney. The prize that day
was a fishing rod. Johnny Miles did not win the fishing rod, but
his prowess as a runner was already evident.
It bas been said that people in the small towns of Florence and
Sydney Mines would often look out through their windows to sec
Johnny running through the cold twilight. The son of a coal mine
manager, Johnny Miles trained under his father's watchful eye,
running behind his father's team of horses as they travelled 10 to
15 miles back from the mine to their home.
Johnny won his first race in 1924, but his first major event was
a 10-mile maritime championship race in Halifax on
Thanksgiving Day of 1925. With his father's promise that if he
won that day he would take Johnny to Boston the next spring to
compete in the 26-mile Boston Marathon, there was no question
of the outcome - he won.
Johnny Miles entered the Boston Marathon on April 19, 1926
as a virtual unknown from Nova Scotia. All attention was
focused on the expected showdown between Finnish marathoner
Albin Stenroos and the three-time winner of the Boston
Marathon, Clarence DeMar. Johnny Miles did not let the high
calibre of his competitors deter him. Donning his white tennis
sneakers from the British Canadian Cooperative Store in Sydney
Mines, he set off on the 26-mile trek. In a stunning upset, he
passed both runners and crossed the finish line, winning the
Boston Marathon and breaking the world record.
Johnny Miles ran the Boston Marathon again the next year but
had a poor finish. Determined to prove his ability, he returned in
1929 and won the Boston Marathon again, breaking another
record with a time of two hours, thirty-three minutes and eight
seconds.
Although Johnny Miles then moved to Ontario and later to the
United States, his great achievements have never been forgotten,
particularly in Nova Scotia. There is in fact a 26-mile marathon
run on Mother's Day every year in New Glasgow, Nova Scotia.
That race is aptly named the Johnny Miles Marathon. Johnny
Miles has returned a number of times to his native Nova Scotia to
attend this annual race named in his honour.
The New Glasgow Marathon, or the Johnny Miles Marathon,
was commenced by a devoted fan and personal friend who was
named after Johnny Miles, Dr. John Miles Williston of New
Glasgow, but who was born in Sydney, Cape Breton. Some
would run in the Johnny Miles Marathon with records of their
own to break, and some would run simply for the joy of
competition. I am sure that all of the runners who participate are
mindful of the achievements of that great sports legend as they
pursue their own quest for excellence.
After a successful career with International Harvester, Johnny
Miles retired to Hamilton, Ontario, where he still lives today.
Although he never raced competitively after 1935, Johnny Miles
is still considered one of our country's greatest sports heroes.
I met Johnny Miles in Sydney many years ago. and in 1981 I
was invited by the Mayor of Boston to attend the marathon when
Johnny Miles was a special guest of the Marathon Commission.

I ask that ail members of the Senate join with me in
congratulating Johnny Miles as he celebrates bis ninetieth
birtbday on October 30 -a great sports bero, a great role model.
and a great Canadian.

Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Motion agreed to.

GUN CONTROL LEGISLATION
Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourable senators, I want first to associate
myseif with the tribute my friend has just paid to an outstanding
Nova Scotian and Canadian. As one of my colleagues just said,
"Go, Jobnny, go!"
I arn not sure bow spry tbe original Jobnny Miles is today, but
some years ago. in the misty past, I had tbe great privilege of
meeting and baving my picture taken with Jobnny Miles at tbe
Antigonish Higbland Cames. At tbe lime, 1 bappened to be
secretary-treasurer and manager of the games. The Highland
Cames at that time was regarded as tbe pre-eminent track and
field meet, as well as "tbe" Scottish games event perbaps in ail of
Canada, if you combined tbe two.
Senator Bucbanan mentioned that tbe maratbon was 26 miles.
I am not sure, but perhaps il would be more accurate to say
26 miles 369 yards, or, as Senator Robicbaud said. to be more
precise the total is 45,760 yards.
I arn also aware of tbe marathon tbat is mun annually in New
Glasgow, Nova Scotia. It is bigbly successful due to tbe devotion
of one Dr. John Miles Williston. a bigbly esteemed physician
living in Pictou County. As Senator Bucbanan says. Jobn Miles
Williston is a native of Sydney, Nova Scotia. wbere be bimself
was a great track and field star, as well as one ot tbe great bockey
players in the Sydney academy. Perbaps Senator Finlay
MacDonald would remember tbat.
I arn sure ail senators would want to associate tbemselves
again with the proper tribute tbat bas been paid by Senator
Buchanan on tbe eve of the anniversary of the ninetietb birtbday
of a great Cape Bretonner, Nova Scotian and Canadian, Jobnny
Miles.

ROUTINE PROCEEDINGS
ADJOURNMENT
Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourable senators, with leave of tbe Senate,
and notwithstanding rule 58(1 )(h). I move:
That when tbe Senate adjourns today. it do stand
adjoumned until Tuesday. October 31. 1995. at two o'clock
in the aternoon.

The Hon. the Speaker pro twnpore: Honourable senators. is
leave eîranted?

r Seiatr

Buchanan 1

PRESENTATION 0F PETITION

Hon. John Lynch-Staunton (Leader of the Opposition):
Honourable senators, I present a petition, signed by 31I residents
of Ontario, asking the Senate to withdraw any support for
Bill C-68.

KARLA HOMOLKA PLEA BARGAIN AGREEMENT
PRESENTATION 0F PETITION

Hon. Anne C. Cools: Honourable senators. I have the bonour
to present a petition. 1 should like to read it into the record.
We, the undersigned residents of Canada, draw the
attention of the Senate to the following:
WHEREAS one of the hallmarks of a fair society is an
equitable justice systern:
WHEREAS the Canadian population has been disturbed
and troubled by the gruesome and shocking evidence
presented in the Paul Bernardo murder trial;
WHEREAS on October 5. 1995. over 300,000 persons
petitioned the Legislative Assembly of Ontario stating that:
We dernand a PUBLIC INQUIRY int the conduct of ail
Crown and law enforcement officials/employees. at aIl
levels involved in the investigation of Karla Homoîka and
in particular the circumstances of the negotiation of tbe
plea bargain arrangement. We also demand that ail day
passes and other privileges bc revoked and her FULL
I 2-YEAR SENTENCE be served in its entirety;
WHEREAS other petitions carrying the same message
are being presented daily to the Legisiative Assembly of
Ontaio;
WHEREAS on two separate occasions in the Legisiative
Assembly of Ontario. Annamarie Castrilli. Member of
Provincial Parliament for Downsview and Liberal
Associate-Critic for Attorney General, has called upon the
Attorney-General of Ontario to make a commitment t0
review tbe Karla Homoika plea-bargain agreement in ligbt
of the evidence presented at tbe Paul Bemardo trial;
We, the undersigned. residents of Canada including
Annamarie Castrilli ...pray that the Senate of Canada be
informed that over 300,000 persons have expressed their
dissatisfaction with the Homolka plea-bargain agreement
and have requested a public inqlliry into Ibis agreement. and
we the undersigned pray that the Senate of Canada take
these concernis int consideration durin- the Senate's
deliberations on Bill S- 11.

SENATE DEBATES

October 19, 1995

[Translation]

GUN CONTROL LEGISLATION
PRESENTATION OF PETITION

Hon. Jean-Louis Roux: Honourable senators, I have the
honour to present a petition signed by 84 residents of Anjou and
Rivière-des-Prairies in Quebec. These people urge the
govemment to ensure that Bill C-68 on gun control takes effect
as soon as possible.
On the other hand, I should inform you that I have received
over 2,000 letters written by people from every province of
Canada to express their support for Bill C-68. For reasons you
can appreciate, I did not bring these letters with me.
CANADA-UNITED STATES
TAX CONVENTION ACT, 1984
BILL TO AMEND-MESSAGE FROM COMMONS

The Hon. the Speaker pro tempore informed the Senate that a
message had been received from the House of Commons
returning Bill S-9, to amend the Canada-United States Tax
Convention Act, 1984, and acquainting the Senate that they had
passed the bill without amendment.
[English]

ORDERS OF THE DAY
EXPLOSIVES ACT
BILL TO AMEND-SECOND READING-DEBATE ADJOURNED

Hon. Colin Kenny moved the second reading of Bill C-71, to
amend the Explosives Act.
He said: Honourable senators, I rise today in support of
Bill C-71, to amend the Explosives Act.
I regret that Senator Kelly is unavoidably away today because
this act is of great interest to him. We all recall the work he did in

chairing the special committee of the Senate on terrorism. He
chaired that committee twice, and they produced what I thought
were extremely useful reports. I wish that he were here now to
hear my remarks. I look forward to hearing what he has to say
when he returns to the chamber.
0(1420)

Bill C-71 proposes the marking of plastic explosives by adding
a chemical which would be detected by equipment at Canada's
international airports, and thus ward off the threat of terrorism.
This bill will protect the health and safety of passengers aboard

aircraft using Canadian air space. In addition, the passage of this
act will show that Canada is living up to its commitment as a
signatory to the international convention on the marking of
plastic explosives for the purpose of detection. In fact. the

2133

passage of Bill C-71 will allow Canada to be among the first
nations to ratify this convention, which was signed in Montreal
by 40 countries in March of 1991.
The 1991 convention represents an international agreement to
combine efforts among nations to reduce the risk of aircraft
bombings. Canadian participation in this effort is essential to the
continuing battle against terrorism.
Plastic explosives have emerged as a weapon of choice for
terrorist groups because this type of explosive is powerful, stable,
easy to conceal and, most important, it is very difficult to detect.
If plastic explosives are marked or tagged with a substance that
can be detected by equipment at Canadian airports, terrorists
would likely be discouraged from attempting any attacks on
Canada using plastic explosives.
At the present time, there is no way to detect plastic explosives
in airports, while conventional explosive materials can be
detected by the equipment we already have in existence. This act
proposes the marking of plastic explosives by adding a chemical
which would be detected by equipment or dogs at Canada's
international airports, and thus ward off the threat of terrorism.
Honourable senators, the extra costs of producing detectable
plastic explosives are expected to be negligible. That is primarily
due to the relatively low volume of plastic explosives that are
manufactured in Canada, coupled with the insignificant costs of
incorporating the marking agent.
In addition, given the low volume of plastic explosives that are
used compared to that of conventional industrial explosives, the
challenge of enforcing the provisions of the proposed amendment
and, by extension, the international convention, will not pose a
significant problem or cost on the relevant regulatory bodies.
Given the fact that Canada is a world leader in vapour
detection technology, Canadian equipment manufacturers will be
able to take advantage of international market opportunities for
their vapour detection technology, as other countries ratify the
convention.
In conclusion, honourable senators, we are determined to
contribute to the health and safety of passengers on aircraft in
this country. In addition, we are committed to working with our
international partners to stop the threat of terrorism in our skies
and around the globe. The passage of Bill C-71 will send a clear
signal to terrorists everywhere that Canada will not be an easy
target for their deadly campaigns of violence.
I urge all honourable senators to give speedy passage to this
amendment to the Explosives Act.
Hon. Noël A. Kinsella: Honourable senators, Bill C-71, which
amends the Explosives Act, was introduced in the other place by
the Minister of Natural Resources on February 24, 1995. It is an
important piece of legislation, and we are pleased to have it
before this chamber at this time. We will be giving it serious
study and, as Senator Kenny has pointed out. our colleague
Senator Kelly will be responding in detail to this bill at the next
sitting of the Senate.
On motion of Senator Kinsella. for Senator Kelly. debate

adjourned.

[Translation]

EMPLOYMENT EQUITY BILL
SECOND READINO

DEBATE ADJOURNED

Hon. Rose-Marie Losier-Cool moved the second reading of
Bill C-64, an act respecting employment equity.
She said: Honourable senators. it is a great privilege for me to
speak to Bill C-64. respecting employment equity, because it is a
most important piece of legisiation. This bill will help the federal
govemment and its partners in the public and private sectors to
eliminate, in the workplace. discrimination based on gender,
race. colour or disability. Once proclaimed. this bill will replace
the current Employment Equity Act. It will require every
employer from the public sector, as weIl as large federally
regulated organizations. to correct unfair situations whicb have
existed for decades. To put this legislation in its proper context. it
must be realized that Canada. like any other country. bas a
history of discrimination.
[En glish]
Wben the new Immigration Act was enacted in 1952, it
continued restrictions on immigration based on nationality,
citizensbip, etbnicity. occupation. class, and place of origin.
Legisiated discriminatory practices continued until 1960. when
we adopted the Canadian Bill of Rights. In fact. these prohibitive
clauses were not removed until our present Immigration Act was
enacted in 1977.
Honourable senators. although the provinces brought in fair
employment legislation beginning in the early 1950s, lederal
initiatives designcd to enhance employment equity did not begin
uîîtil 1978. That was the year the government launched a
voluntary affirmative action program aimed at private industry.
Federal contractors and Crown corporations were included under
the program the following year.
In 1982, the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms
constitutionally afirmed the rigbt to equality in employment. In
1983. the affirmative action program sought to bring about the
equitable representation and distribution of women. aboriginal
people, and persons witb disabilities in the public service. That
same year. the Special Measures Program encouraged
recruitment from designated groups. Then in 1985, visible
minorities werc included as part oU the designated groups.
[Translation]
Honourable senators. some among you will recaîl that in 1983
tbe government mandated a royal commission to examine equal
access to employment. That commission tabled its report in
November 1984 and two years later, in response to its
recommendations. the Employment Equity Act was passed. In
1986 the federal contractors program for employment equity was
launched and Treasury Board adopted an employment equity
program for the public service. The Treasury Board policy on
services to the disabled -the most progressive of' its kind iii
Canada - camne into etlect in 1989. Yet the prescrnt employrnent
equîly legislation ks causing problenms. A special parlianientary

comrnittee pinpointed two major ones in May 1992. during its
in-depth examination of the content and functioning of' the act.
The first is that it applies only to the private sector. As I have just
said, the Public Service is govemed by Treasury Board policy.
The second is that the act contains no coercive measures.
These problems are solved by Bill C-64, which the Minister of'
Human Resources Development tabled in the House last
December. After tirst reading, it was referred to the Standing
Committee on Human Rights and the Status of Disabled Persons,
which examined the present act and Bill C-64 simultaneously. As
a resuit of the bard work and suggestions of the entire
membership. the committee was successful in making significant
amendments to the bill in the remarkable report il submitted this
past June. After lively debate. the amended bill was given third
reading in the House of Commons just recently.
[Eniglislij
Honourable senators. Canadians can be proud of the efforts
our government has made to correct injustices. 1 arn pleased to
intorm you that the current Employment Equity Act has begun to
correct the disadvantaged status of persons in tbe four designated
groups. However, we still have some way to go. Under the act.
the representation of women in the workplace bas increased from
40.94 per cent in 1987 to 45.64 per cent in 1993. Their
representation bas also increased in some key occupational
groups. and women's average eamings bave improved relative to
the average earnings of men.
Members of visible minorities bave made substantial gains
with employers covered under the existing act. Their
representation bas increased lrom 5 per cent in 1987 to 8.09 per
cent in 1992. They bave increased their share of' ail hirings and
promotions almost every year.
Althougb stili quite low. the representation of aboriginal
people in the workforce governed by the act doubled f'rom
0.66 per cent in 1987 to 1.04 per cent in 1993. Their sbare of
birings also increased. as did their share of' promotions. Over the
same seven years, the representation of persons with disabilities
in the workforce under the act increased from 1.59 per cent to
2.56 per cent, and their occupational and salary profiles were
similar to those of able-bodied workers.
[Translation]
Honourable senators, altbougb we should welcome tbese
improvements. tbe tact remains that members of tbe four
designated groups are still greatly underrepresented in most
professions and industries across tbe country. When we compare
the percentages 1 just mentioned. aboriginal peoples and persons
with disabilities are greatly underrepresented. Women and visible
minorities tend to be concentrated in low-paying jobs, with
two-thirds of' women engaged in clerical work. The average
salary for women is only 74.53 per cent that of men.
Most aboriginal women do clerical work. and aboriginal men
and women earn considerably less than other workers. There are
so nmany lay otîs among aboriginal peoples that employnient
equity bas not given themi a chance Io make substantial progress.
On the whole. eniployers hire verv few persons with disabilities.

October 19, 1995

October 19, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

SENATE DEBATES

Although it is encouraging to see that the present legislation
benefits Canadians who for years have been exposed to systemic
discrimination, we must not become complacent. It is now up to
the government to promote employment equity, which is in fact
the purpose of Bill C-64.
Honourable senators, the bill before us today will strengthen
employment equity by making employers more aware of their
responsibilities under this legislation. It will help the government
improve the way it assists members of designated groups who are
struggling to find their rightful place within the Canadian labour
force. The present legislation applies to approximately
350 employers in the private sector and Crown corporations. As
soon as it comes into force, the new legislation will also apply to
departments, federal agencies and public sector employers with
more than 100 employees. Following consultations and an order
in council, the Canadian Forces and the RCMP will also be
covered by this legislation.
Honourable senators, Bill C-64 clarifies current requirements
and identifies the fundamental obligations of employers. Both
public and private sector employers will have to fulfil the same
fundamental obligations when they develop and implement their
employment equity plans.
Honourable senators will doubtless agree that it is pointless to
set requirements if there is no way to ensure that employers do
their utmost to meet them. The new legislation enables the
Canadian Human Rights Commission to oversee the efforts of
employers and to ensure that they all make every reasonable
effort to have a representative employee population in
accordance with the provisions of law.
On the other hand, certain honourable senators fear, perhaps,
that the bill demands too much of employers. They will be happy
to learn that the requirement to implement employment equity
does not force employers to take measures that might be
unjustifiably prejudicial to them, to create new jobs, to hire or
promote unqualified individuals or, in the public sector, to
contravene the merit principle. To clarify the government's
intentions, the bill expressly prohibits the establishment of
quotas.
The government believes that the success of the new
legislation depends on consultation between employers and
employees. To this end, Bill C-64 requires employers to obtain
the opinion of employee representatives in the preparation,
implementation and revision of their employment equity plan.
This consultation and cooperation must not, however, be
construed as co-management.
Furthermore, the bill requires employers to consult employees
when company seniority rights could threaten employment
opportunities for members of the designated groups.
[English]

As I mentioned earlier, the intent of the government is to
improve employment opportunities for Canadians who have
clearly felt the sting of discrimination. I think honourable
senators will agree that to do so requires adequate measures to
secure compliance with the act's requirements.

2135
2135

The bill creates a new mandate for the Canadian Human
Rights Commission to conduct on-site compliance reviews to
ensure that employers are making all reasonable efforts to fulfil
their obligations under the new act. I want to emphasize,
however, that this is not an inquisition. Employers who make all
reasonable efforts to implement employment equity will not be
penalized because of adverse economics or low response rates to
self-identification surveys.
Honourable senators, when it comes to enforcing the act's
provisions the commission will have the authority to appoint
employment equity review tribunals from the current Human
Rights Tribunal panel. An employer may also request the
establishment of a tribunal to review a direction from the
commission.
I believe honourable senators will agree that it is in the best
interests of all concemed that fair and even-handed decisions are
made regarding tribunal rulings. For that reason, the president of
the Human Rights Tribunal panel will conscientiously give due
consideration to an individual's knowledge and experience in
employment equity matters when appointing members to an
employment equity review tribunal.
As well as the provisions I have outlined, Bill C-64 clarifies
the commission's powers of enforcement under both the
proposed Employment Equity Act and the Canadian Human
Rights Act. It confirms that Human Resources Development
Canada is responsible for administering the federal contractors'
program for employment equity and it ensures that the
employment equity requirements of the federal contractors'
program are equivalent to those under the new act.
0(1440)

To further the new act's positive influence in helping
Canadians move toward true equality in the workplace, Human
Resources Development Canada will conduct research, provide
labour market data, and administer programs that recognize
outstanding achievements in employment equity.
Mandatory review of the legislation will take place every five
years instead of every three as is now required.
[Translation]

Honourable senators, I mentioned that, like many other
countries, Canada has a history of discrimination. I did not,
however, want to suggest that this important bill is aimed at
righting yesterday's wrongs. Rather, I feel that the whole bill
focuses on the future. It is only through progressive and
proactive bills like this one that we will succeed in eliminating
inequities.
Judging from the wide support Bill C-64 received from
regulated businesses, designated groups and unions, equality in
the workplace is an objective shared by many Canadians.
Honourable senators, the adoption of Bill C-64 is another big
step toward full equality for all these Canadians. I therefore urge
honourable senators to support this outstanding bill.

Hon. Noël A. Kinsella: Honourable senators, I wish to thank
our colleague for her presentation and her very clear explanations
on this very important issue. Senator Losier-Cool was a leader in
New Brunswick in the fight against discrimination against
women. This bill is aimed at eliminating institutional
discrimination.
[English]
Honourable senators, in 1986 the Conservative government
introduced the Employment Equity Act, which set the pattern for
an attempt to deal with institutional discrimination through the
vehicle of employment equity. It is good to see that work
continuing because it is an ongoing process.
It is far more appropriate that Parliament, rather than the
courts, give instruction to agencies. For example, the Human
Rights Commission has a mandate to deal with discrimination
committed on the grounds of sexual orientation. Unfortunately,
the government has yet to live up to its promise to introduce
legislation to add sexual orientation to the list of prescribed
grounds of discrimination. It is a pity that the courts had to rule
in the Haig case and prescribe that ground as a form of
discrimination before the Human Rights Commission could act
on such cases. It should have been Parliament. We have a
commitment from the government that we will see amendments
to the federal Human Rights Act in that regard, but we have yet
to see them.
Honourable senators, a number of colleagues on this side of
the chamber wish to participate in the study of this bill. I am sure
they will do so in committee. My colleague Senator Johnson,
who could not be here today, wishes to participate in the debate
at second reading and will do so at the next sitting of the Senate.
On motion of Senator Kinsella, for Senator Johnson, debate
adjoumed.
• (14Sm

EXCISE TAX ACT
EXCISE ACT
BILL TO AMEND-SECOND READING

Hon. Peter Bosa moved the second reading of Bill C-90, to
amend the Excise Tax Act and the Excise Act.
He said: Honourable senators. Bill C-90 implements changes
to the air transportation tax, the excise tax rates on gasoline, the
marking requirements for tobacco products for sale in Prince
Edward Island, and the seizure and notification provisions in
respect of offences under the Excise Act. All of these measures
were announced in the budget of February 1995.
Bill C-90 also contains changes to the excise tax rates for
tobacco products for sale in Quebec, Ontario, and Prince Edward
Island. These changes were announced on February 17, 1995 for
Quebec and Ontario, and on March 31, 1995 for Prince Edward
Island.
Honourable senators, I will begin hy addressing the key budget
measures contained in Bill C-90. As part of the government's

efforts to meet its deficit reduction targets, the air transportation
tax is being amended to recover a greater proportion of the cost
of providing air transportation facilities and services. Thus, the
maximum tax on domestic and transborder air travel and the tax
on international air travel purchased in Canada will increase
from $50 to $55, while the maximum tax on international air
travel purchased outside Canada, and on transborder air travel
subject to the United States' 10 per cent air transportation tax,
will increase from $25 to $27.50. These changes to the air
transportation tax will generate an additional $27 million in the
1995-96 fiscal year, and $33 million in the 1996-97 fiscal year.
The new rates of tax will apply to tickets purchased on or after
May 1, 1995.
Also, as a part of the government's efforts to meet its deficit
reduction targets, the excise tax rates on leaded and unleaded
gasoline are being increased by 1.5 cents per litre. The excise tax
on unleaded gasoline and aviation gasoline will increase from
8.5 cents per litre to 10 cents per litre, while the excise tax on
leaded gasoline and aviation gasoline will increase from
9.5 cents per litre to 1l cents per litre. The new rates of tax are
effective February 28, 1995, and will raise an additional
$500 million per fiscal year.
Honourable senators, this bill also proposes a number of
legislative amendments to the Excise Tax Act to phase out the
sale of black stock tobacco products and authorize the sale of
Nova Scotia marked tobacco products in Prince Edward Island.
This change is being undertaken at the request of and pursuant to
an agreement between the governments of Prince Edward Island
and Nova Scotia and will be effective upon Royal Assent to this
legislation. This change to the marking requirements for tobacco
products will allow for greater efficiency in serving the Prince
Edward Island market.
The Excise Act currently mandates enforcement officers to
seize any vehicle used in the transportation of contraband alcohol
and tobacco products, even where relatively minor amounts of
contraband are discovered. To remedy the difficulties sometimes
occasioned by this requirement, the Excise Act is being amended
to provide enforcement officers with discretion in their use of the
power to seize vehicles.
At the same time, the Excise Act is also being amended to
require that enforcement officers undertake reasonable efforts to
provide notification of seizure to persons with an ownership or
other interest in a seized vehicle. Both of these changes will
serve to improve the delivery and efficiency of enforcement
activities.
Honourable senators, that is the sum of the budget-related
measures contained in Bill C-90. I should like now to discuss the
tobacco tax increases that were announced outside the budget
process but are contained in the legislation.
Following the success of the National Action Plan to Combat
Smuggling, excise tax rates are being increased on tobacco
products sold in Quebec. Ontario and Prince Edward Island. In
Quebec and Ontario. excise taxes are being increased by 60 cents
per carton of 200 cigarettes. while in Prince Edward Island
excise taxes are being increased hy $1 per carton of cigarettes
and 32 cents per 200 tobacco sticks.

October 19, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

Federal excise tax increases are being undertaken in
conjunction with provincial tobacco tax increases in these three
provinces. The joint federal-provincial tax increases follow the
scheme of the matching federal-provincial tax reduction
undertaken last year as part of the anti-smuggling initiative.
These excise tax increases will raise $65 million per year for the
federal government. They are effective February 18, 1995, in
respect of cigarettes sold in Quebec and Ontario, while the
increases in respect of cigarettes and tobacco sticks sold in
Prince Edward Island are effective April 1, 1995.
In conclusion, honourable senators, Bill C-90 is an important
bill. It enacts a number of provisions that will make a significant
contribution to the govemment's commitment to increased cost
recovery and deficit reduction. It is important to remember that
the increases in the air transportation tax and the gasoline excise
tax were delivered in a budget that emphasized spending
reductions over tax increases by a margin of almost seven to one.
The amendments to the tobacco marking scheme will allow for
greater efficiency in serving the Prince Edward Island market,
while the amendments to the seizure and notification provisions
of the Excise Act will improve the delivery of enforcement
activities.
Finally, the changes to the excise tax rates for tobacco
products for sale in Quebec, Ontario and Prince Edward Island
recognize the success to date of the National Action Plan to
Combat Smuggling and represent important first steps toward the
long-term restoration of uniform federal excise tax rates across
Canada.
I would therefore urge my fellow senators to give speedy
passage to this bill.
Hon. Noël A. Kinsella: Honourable senators, I would like to
make a few comments in some detail on Bill C-90 this aftemoon,
before it finds its way to the Standing Senate Committee on
Banking, Trade and Commerce.
Before dealing with the substance of the bill, I should like to
remind government supporters of a promise that the government
made prior to the last election. I am sure that honourable
colleagues opposite recall the paper entitled "Reviving
Parliamentary Democracy-The Liberal Plan for the House of
Commons and Electoral Reform." In that document we were
told:
The credibility-stretching tradition of not passing actual
tax measures until many months after a budget, often even
after the measures have come into effect, must, within the
context of a suitable system of consultation, be ended.
This is what the government which honourable senators
opposite support put forward as a principle. Nothing has been
done to honour that promise. Perhaps the minister or his officials
will be able to tell the committee whether anything will ever be
done to honour that promise.
Honourable senators. let me cite a few examples of how tax
measures -

contrary to what was promised -

are not being

introduced in a timely fashion. First, most of the income tax

2137

measures introduced in the February 1994 budget did not become
law until March 1995, well after the start of the tax filing season.
Some of those measures did not become law until June 1995, two
months after the filing deadline. Second, as of earlier this week,
the government had not yet tabled legislation to deal with the
income tax measures of the February 1995 budget.
Honourable senators, I do not know how they are managing
their affairs, either in govemment or in the House. We certainly
know that what has happened so often will happen again. Certain
pieces of legislation will arrive here at the eleventh hour. They
are all so terribly important, but we will be forced to lay aside
our obligation to give them careful scrutiny. Something is
radically wrong when the nation's business is managed in such a
poor time-line fashion. The bill before us today is a prima facie
case of poor time management. We are being asked to pass a bill
that will implement measures which have been in place for
almost the entire past year.
This bill, which retroactively approves a significant tax hike,
had not proceeded beyond first reading in the other place when
Parliament rose for the summer. Often, we receive criticism from
our colleagues in the other place, and all I can say is that by any
analysis, even that of a student of Business Administration 100,
this is a poor way of doing business.
Perhaps it is not practical to speed up the introduction of tax
bills. If that is the case, then it was stretching credibility to make
such a promise in the first place.
Honourable senators, taxes, as we all know and as every
Canadian knows, are at the limit. Yet in February of this year, the
government increased taxes by more than $1 billion and by more
than $1.3 billion for 1996-97. About $600 million of last
February's tax hike will be made law through this piece of
legislation. It includes $500 million a year from higher fuel
taxes; $33 million from higher taxes on air tickets; and
$65 million from higher tobacco taxes. Income tax measures
from the budget will be the subject of a separate bill.
Perhaps. in committee, the government will give some
indication as to when we might see that legislation, and I hope it
is such that it may be examined in a timely fashion.
Retroactive to last February, Bill C-90 increases the excise tax
on gasoline to 10 cents per litre from 8.5 cents. Remember how
the government promised tax fairness? It was very proud of that
promise. Clearly, many Canadians believed that that promise
would be kept. There is nothing fair about higher fuel taxes if
you live in my part of Canada or in most rural parts of Canada.
Unlike the GST, there is no rebate on these taxes, which will
make Canadian businesses less competitive.
Also, retroactive to last February, this bill raises the excise tax
on aviation fuel to Il cents per litre from 9.5 cents per litre.
Bill C-90 increases the maximum air transportation tax
retroactive to last May.
Many of us are encouraging efforts to curb tobacco use, but
the government focused, as honourable senators will recall, on
the problem of tobacco smuggling. Cigarette taxes were reduced
in February 1994. What happened a year later in February 1995?

Lo and behold. the government said that the cuts were working
and therefore they could be rolled back, which resulted in
combined federal-provincial taxes rising by 60 cents a carton.
This bill retroactively approves that increase.
The bill also makes some technical changes concerning
tobacco markings and makes the rules for vehicle seizures less
onerous.
In conclusion, I remind the government, and those who
support it, about another major promise that has yet to be
honoured. As honourable senators know, the goods and services
tax is governed by the Excise Tax Act, which is being amended
by Bill C-90.

Senator Simard: Let the govemment decide that.
Senator Oison: A little truth always comes from somewhere.
"Let the government decide," says Senator Simard. It is too bad
that the honourable senator interrupted, but he is correct: The
government must do these things. However, I wondered how
they could do that, because we bring a number of bills into both
Houses. Some of them languish in the House of Commons for
weeks and months; others languish in the Senate. I could name a
few that my honourable friend is probably responsible for their
having languished here in the Senate, awaiting passage. Does he
have a better idea as to how to impose taxes so that there is some
notice and some certainty concerning what the tax collectors will
do on the dates that were announced in the budget'? Or is he now
prepared to say -

Remember the Red Book. honourable senators? Let me give
you a quote from that piece of "pulp fiction."

Senator Lynch-Staunton: It belongs in the blue box.
Senator Kinsella: I quote:
A Liberal government will replace the GST with a system
that generates equivalent revenues, is fairer to consumers
and to small business, and promotes federal-provincial fiscal
cooperation and harmonization.
Honourable senators, the Honourable Sheila Copps. who we
last saw still holding the position of Deputy Prime Minister, went
so far as to tell the CBC on October 18, 1993:
If the GST is not abolished, lIl resign.
Senator Fairbairn: She will have a long and fruitful career.
Senator Lynch-Staunton:
environment she is in.

We

know

what kind of

Senator Kinsella: Honourable senators, the Prime Minister
also said that he would honour all his promises within two years.
Colleagues, two years have passed but the GST is still here, and
it is still applying to books.
There are rumours that the government might propose a single
national sales tax in the next budget. However. a lack of interest
on the part of the provinces makes the acceptance of such a
proposal an uncertain prospect. As such, a new tax may be
hidden in the price and will likely tax several items that are not
now taxed. It is unclear how this would be any fairer to
consumers.
I could say much more about this bill. However, I do not want
to shoot off all the ammunition in my rifle as the bill goes off to
the Banking Committee for detailed examination.
Hon. H.A. Oison: Honourable senators, I should like to ask
Senator Kinsella a question. Obviously, he has studied this bill
carefully and compared it to something. although I know not
what. Since the honourable senator is so critical of the taxes
being applied here. and of the time lapse between this legislation
and the date on which they were announced. does he have sone
better systen for bringing in tax changes?

1Scnator Kinsella 1

and mean it -

that Parliament -

and the

opposition. in particular - will pass these things in time to meet
the dates that were mentioned in the two speeches?
Senator Kinsella: Honourable senators. I thank my
honourable friend for his question. It raises a number of
important issues.
Senator Oison: You bet it does!
Senator Kinsella: The first issue is the issue of integrity. and
integrity in terms of what you offer to the Canadian electorate.
You say to them, "We will change the system so that we do not
have this." I assumed that those who were the authors of that
promise had it ail worked out.
I share the suspicion implied in the question asked by the
honourable senator, namely: How would you really do this?
Senator Oison: That is the point.
Senator Kinsella: Yes, that is the point.
Senator Doody: You must have known before you wrote the
book and made the promise!
Senator Kinsella: My colleague beside me makes that point.
Senator Oison: We get lots of help, obviously. The
government proposes and, especially where the opposition has a
majority, the opposition disposes. That is an old truth that has
been around here for years. It did not happen with this
Parliament.
Is the opposition prepared to give an undertaking that, from
now on. they will pass these bills in time to meet the dates
announced in the budget?
Senator Lynch-Staunton: We must get them first.
Motion agreed to and bill read the second time.
REFERRED TO COMMITTEE

The Hon. the Speaker pro tempore: Honourable senators,
when shall this bill be read the third time?
On motion of Senator Bosa. bill referred to the Standine
Senate Committee on Banking. Trade and Commerce.

SENATE DEBATES

October 19, 1995

BILL CONCERNING KARLA HOMOLKA
POINT OF ORDER

On the Order:
Second reading of Bill S-11, An Act concerning one
Karla Homolka.-(Hon. Senator Cools)

2139

The bill of attainder is described at page 69 of the 20th edition
of Erskine May as "the highest form of parliamentary
judicature." In other words, that is obviously suggesting that such
a bill would be a public bill. In this instance, that would be a
Senate public bill. The procedure is an obsolete one in the United
Kingdom, and has not been employed since the eighteenth
century.

Hon. Noël A. Kinsella: Honourable senators, I rise on a point
of order.

I submit to Your Honour that this procedure has never existed
in Canadian practice. Therefore, the matter contained in this bill
is out of order and not properly before this chamber.

The Hon. the Speaker pro tenpore: A point of order takes
precedence.

Hon. Anne C. Cools: Your Honour, there is nothing before us.
I did not move anything.

Senator Kinsella: Honourable senators, I will explain my
point of order as succinctly as I possibly can. However, in no
way is this point of order intended to detract from the important
point that underlies and is implied very clearly in the Honourable
Senator Cools' bill which is before us. My point of order
involves an important issue of procedure in Parliament.
First and foremost, as we know, there are two kinds of bills
that can be entertained in Parliament - private bills and public
bills. This issue emerged in the other place a few years ago in
relation to a bill respecting the execution of Clifford Robert
Olson. At that time, the Speaker in the other place looked at the
same issue, namely: Is this piece of legislation one that can
properly be dealt with within the traditions, customs and rules of
this chamber?
In the House of Commons Debates of May 14, 1984, at

page 3683, the Speaker points out that:
According to our practice, there are only two kinds of
Bills. Public and Private.
He then referred to citation 700 of Beauchesne's 5th edition.
In the 6th edition of Beauchesne at page 192, the same point is
repeated, namely, that:
A public bill relates to matters of public policy while a
private bill relates to matters of a particular interest or
benefit to a person or persons.
As was the case with the Olson bill, that comment applies
equally here. The bill does not fall within the definition of a
private bill since it cannot be said to promote the particular
interest or benefit of the individual named, namely, Karla
Homolka. Therefore, it can only be a public bill, although
whether the incarceration for life as set out in this bill - as with
the execution of the individual in the Olson bill - can be
described as a matter of public policy is another question. In the
case of the Olson bill, that was doubted by the Speaker in the
other place.
The conclusion of the Speaker in the other place was that that
kind of bill falls into a special category for which our practices
do not provide. Its nature is that of a bill of attainder, a
proceeding at one time employed by the British Parliament to
convict and condemn an individual of a high crime by way of an
act of Parliament.

Senator Kinsella: But it is on the Order Paper.
The Hon. the Speaker pro tempore: Do any other honourable
senators wish to speak on the point of order?
Senator Cools: Your Honour, can you clarify for me if, in fact,
the issue is before us? My understanding is that when the order is
called, I would then move the motion for second reading.
However, there was nothing before us when Senator Kinsella
spoke.
The Hon. the Speaker pro tempore: My understanding is that
the matter was called, and it is before the Senate. Notice has been
given.
Senator Cools: However, the motion for second reading has
not yet been moved.
The Hon. the Speaker pro tempore: The bill is on the Order
Paper and the order was called. Senator Kinsella then rose on a
point of order, and I am now asking if any other senator wishes to
speak on that point of order.
Hon. Sharon Carstairs: Honourable senators, the only
addition to the discussion on this point of order that I would like
to make is to point out that we have gone through a similar
procedure earlier this session with respect to Bill S-10. Senator
Gauthier rose on a point of order. If I am not mistaken, the
Speaker ruled that he could not rise on his point of order because
the matter was not before the chamber, as it had not been moved
by Senator Tkachuk. Before Senator Gauthier could raise his
point of order, the subject-matter of the bill, not the bill itself,
was referred to the Standing Senate Committee on Aboriginal
Peoples.
Therefore, it seems to me that we have dealt with a situation
similar to this one earlier this session. Perhaps, for the sake of
clarity, we could allow Senator Cools to move second reading of
her bill and then have Senator Kinsella raise his point of order,
which I think is an extremely legitimate one. Then we could have
a ruling from the His Honour.
The Hon. the Speaker pro tempore: If no other honourable
senator wishes to speak, I will take the submissions under
advisement and the Chair will give a ruling at a later date.
Senator Cools: I am prepared to speak. Your Honour, but
perhaps I might be told what I am speaking to.

Senator Lynch-Staunton: You cannot speak.
The Hon. the Speaker pro tempore: I am afraid that there will
have to be a ruling on the point of order before the Chair can
recognize the honourable senator.
Senator Cools: Very well. Your Honour. I shall speak to the
point of order, but it was my clear understanding that there is
nothing before us.
Honourable senators. I have given this matter careful
consideration. My actions have been guided by much
consideration and study of the public's shocked response to the
trial of Paul Bernardo. In Toronto and throughout Canada, the
horrible events surrounding the sexual assaults and three brutal
killings by Homolka and Bernardo dominated the news daily.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: What does that have to do with the
point of order?
The Hon. the Speaker pro tenpore: There is a certain onus on
the Chair in matters of points of orders. Until the point of order
with regard to whether it is in order for the honourable senator to
speak on this matter is ruled upon, we cannot hear debate on the
bill. only on the point of order itself.
Senator Cools: Perhaps Your Honour could tell me exactly
what the point of order is that Senator Kinsella has raised.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: How can you discuss it when you
do not know what it is?
The Hon. the Speaker pro teipore: I assume it is quite clear.
The honourable senator raised a point of order and argued that, in
his opinion, the bill with respect to which notice was given a
couple of days ago was not in order.
I listened to what the honourable senator had to say, and I
invited other honourable senators who so wished to make a
submission on the point of order. At that time, Senator Cools
indicated that she wished to make a submission on the point of
order. Her submission must be on the point of order; it cannot be
on the substance of the bill with respect to which she gave notice
two days ago.
Senator Cools: Is the concern of the Honourable Senator
Kinsella that the notice given two days ago is out of order?
The Hon. the Speaker pro tempore: The honourable senator
cannot enter into dialogue with the Chair.
Senator Cools: I should like to put a few comments on the
record, Your Honour.
Senator Kinsella cited an example of a bill of attainder raised
by a member on the other side. some years ago. I believe he cited
as well some remarks from the then Speaker of the House of
Commons, who I believe was Lloyd Francis. with regard to a bill
of attainder.
In the first instance. honourable senators. I am not proposing a
bill of attainder: nor am I proposing that Ms Homolka be
executed.

I do not have a copy of Senator Kinsella's statement before
me, but I shall quote one of the parliamentary authorities on the
question of bills of attainder.
In the 1989 publication of Erskine May, it is clearly stated that
the powers of bills of attainder have never been formally
abolished. Clearly this house has the power to consider a bill of
attainder. However, Bill S-11 is not a bill of attainder.
The initiative which I have asked the Senate to implement is
described as "a bill of pains and penalties." which is quite
different, though related in origin, from a bill of attainder. I
submit that this house. this chamber, this Parliament of Canada.
has the power to enact a bill of pains and penalties.
Honourable senators. I shall attempt to describe what a bill of
pains and penalties is. Such a bill is an attempt by the Parliament
of Canada to redress injustices and to impose penalties suited to
- and suitable to - the notoriety of particular crimes. A bill of
pains and penalties asks the Senate to engage Parliament's
inquisitorial and judicial powers to correct a terrible public
mischief which has offended the people of Canada. This ancient
and undoubted remedy of Parliament, known as "an act of pains
and penalties" is rarely used and is reserved for exceptional and
extraordinary circumstances of injustice.
A bill of pains and penalties attempts to ask the high court of
Parliament to exercise its full powers as the grand inquest of the
nation and to engage its direct and indirect judicial powers. A bill
of pains and penalty is intended to remedy the insufficiencies of
the Crown in the executive. It is the people's remedy as against
the deficiencies and wants in the executive's actions. It is an act
to suit the Houses and not the executive. When the Crown in
council has failed, the Crown in Parliament must act to remedy.
Honourable senators, for centuries our Constitution bas
directed that the Senate has the power of judicature; that the
Commons has power of judicature; and that both Houses together
also have power of judicature.
An act of pains and penalties is an ancient instrument of
Parliament. It is a product of Parliament. It is a procedure that is
legislative in form and judicial in substance: a legislative
instrument with a judicial result. As a bill. it differs in no respect
from any other bill. It proceeds through the chamber like any
other bill.

An act of pains and penalties is an action by Parliament for the
correction of an unjust result, a correction of a miscarriage of
justice by legislating the fitting pain and penalty for a heinous
offence. It is an assertion of the rights of the citizens as embodied
and assembled in the Parliament of Canada, and as against the
insufficient actions of the Crown in the executive.
The rights of the people of Canada cannot be denied by one or
two senators rising and saying that something is in or out of
order. The rights of the people of Canada to such action by its
Parliament. as I have proposed, are grounded in the Bill of Rights
of 1688 and the British North America Act of 1867, section 18.
as amended in 1875.

October 19, 1995

October 19, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

SENATE DEBATES

The Bill of Rights of 1688 settled the powers of Parliament for
all time in article vi, stating:
... That all and singular the Rights and Liberties asserted and
claimed ... are the true, ancient, and indubitable Rights and
Liberties of the People of this Kingdom,...
These powers of Parliament are antecedent to our Canadian
Confederation and were received into Canada by the British
North America Act 1867, as amended in 1875. Section 18 reads:
The privileges, immunities, and powers to be held, enjoyed,
and exercised by the Senate and by the House of Commons
... shall be such as are ... defined by Act of the Parliament of

Canada, but so that any Act of the Parliament of Canada ...
shall not confer any privileges, immunities, or powers
exceeding those ... held, enjoyed, and exercised by the

Commons House of Parliament of the United Kingdom ...

Our Constitution, our parliamentary authorities, including
Sir Erskine May, John Hatsell, and our own Altheus Todd,
instruct us that the paramount authority of Parliament over the
courts must never be forgotten.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: Really?
Senator Cools: Yes. Dr. Todd said that the Parliament must
ever be observant of the courts of justice and take due care that
none of them, from the lowest to the highest, shall pursue new
courses unknown to the laws and Constitution.
Honourable senators, I am speaking about the Constitution and
the law of Canada. The high court of Parliament is the supreme
power of Canada, and the supreme power of Canada is armed
with the punitive, inquisitorial and judicial instruments necessary
to its function of governance.
Honourable senators, such judicial and legislative proceedings
in Parliament as Bill S-11 proposes are regulated by the rules,
customs and ancient practices of Parliarnent; that is the law of
Parliament, the Lex et consuetudo Parliamenti.

The law and customs of Parliament form part of the common
law of the land, but it is peculiar to Parliament and Parliament's
governance of itself, and it is sovereign to Parliament.
About these powers, John Hatsell tells us that, as every court
of justice has laws and customs for its direction, some by the
common law, some by the civil law, so, too, the high court of
Parliament has its own laws and customs. John Hatsell, in his
famous five-volume work, cites Sir Edward Coke, stating:
It is by the Lex et consuetudo Parlianenti,that all weighty

matters concerning the Peers of the Realm, or Commons in
Parliament assembled, ought to be discussed, adjudged, and
determined.
Honourable senators, Parliament's consideration of this
weighty matter, the contents of Bill S-l l, including the Homolka
agreement and the 12-year sentence received by Ms Homolka. is
regulated by the law of Parliament. I believe that the
insufficiencies and excesses of the Crown and counsel in the

2141
2141

exercise of its powers and discretion in matters relating to the
Criminal Code of Canada have resulted in a miscarriage of
justice.
The Hon. the Speaker pro tempore: Order, please. I must
point out again that to speak on the substantive matter of
Bill S-Il would be premature until there is a ruling on the point
of order.
Senator Cools: Very well. I shall heed Your Honour's
statement. In my mind, I am speaking to the concept of a bill on
penalty, but I shail heed Your Honour's advice on the more
ordinary forms of proceeding.
A bill of pains and penalties compels the Parliament of Canada
to take cognizance of the matter and to pass laws redressing the
mischief offered to the state, to the people of Canada, te the
Crown, and to the Sovereign, thereby to hold up to the country an
example which might deter the commission of similar offences
and similar actions in the future.
I should like to cite some statements from a book Lord
Denning wrote entitled The Road to Justice. In these statements,
Lord Alfred Denning, one of the most eminent jurists, recollects
that when William Temple, the Archbishop of Canterbury, spoke
to some lawyers, he said:
I cannot say that I know much about the law, having been
far more interested in justice.
About the Archbishop's message, Lord Denning wrote:
That was a piece of delicate irony, gently rebuking the
lawyers for losing sight of justice. The rebuke was well
merited. His hearers were lawyers ... who believe in ... the
law as something separate and apart from justice. To them
the courts ... are not the ... Courts of Justice but the Law

Courts.

Lord Denning hits hard, indicating:
When they do an injustice meaning the courts or the lawyers and sometimes the
justices -

... as I fear they occasionally do, they tend to excuse
themselves by saying: "It cannot be helped. The law will
have it so."
0 (154o)

Lord Denning states:
I have often heard judges say: 'we are only concerned with
what the law is, not with what it ought te be': or 'If this
leads to an unjust result, it is a matter for Parliament, not for
us.' They wash their hands of it, as if it was not their
concern.
Honourable senators, an unjust result in the courts of justice is
a matter for Parliament's action. To deny that is to deny the
ancient and undoubted rights of the people of this country.

I repeat, Bill S-Il, a bill of pains and penalties. is an initiative
to ask tbe Senate 10 ask the Crown in Parliament te, redress Ibis
injustice and to impose the penalty suitable to the notorious and
obvious crimes.
Honourable senators, 1 would like 10 put a few more
statements on the record. and I hope this one goes directly 10
wbat Senator Kinsella was saying.

AND WHEREAS the conviction of the said Karla
Homoîka was founded on an agreement....
The Hon. the Speaker pro tenipore: Honourable senators, 1
must point out again that 1 would be derelict in my duty if 1
allowed reference to the substantive matter referred to in
Bill S-I11.
Senator Cools: Okay. 1 will drop it.

On the question of the powers of Parliament and on the
question as 10 whetber or not this chamber, as part of tbe
Parliament of Canada, bas the powers, abilities and jurisdiction
to follow tbrougb on the initiatives proposed in Bill S-1Il, and on
the question of the undisputed powers and authority of
Parliament, I should like 10 put the former Chief Justice of
Canada, tbe Right Honourable Bora Laskin, on the record on the
issue of section 18 of the British Nortb America Act, 1867, as
amended in 1875.
Mr. Justice Laskin stated:
Turning flow t0 the autbority or power of the two federal
houses ....There is no lirait anywbere in law, either in Canada
.having regard 10 section 18 of
or in the United Kingdom,. ..
tbe British North America Act as enacted by 1875,... .wbich
lies the privileges, immunities and powers of the federal
bouses 10 tbose of the British House of Commons.
Honourable senators, I would like 10 place a few more
statemenîs on tbe record. The next one is by Aipheus Todd who
said that by a bill of pains and penalties, anyone may have pains
and penalties inflicted beyond or contrary t0 the existing law. He
went on 10 state:
A bill of pains and penalties is a very special procedure
rarely used because il is reserved for special and especially
notorious circumstances.
Parliamentary autbority John Hatseil states:
If the crime is of a nature and magnitude deserving a
punishment, in the particular case far beyond what bas by
misdemeanours,
the law been deemed sufficient in similar. ..
or
Ibis is my point, honourable senators
if the ruies of admitting evidence or other forms te, wbich
the judges in a court of Iaw are bound to adhere would
preclude the execution of justice upon offenders ...it has been
beld ... that such circumstances would ... justify ... the
legislature itseif te, take cognizance of the case...
-

Honourable senators, a bill of pains and penalties is a
parliamentary device whicb parliamentarians, as true
representatives of the people, should caîl int motion and caîl
intc existence wben ail of' the other common forms have failed.
When tbe Crown in counicil has failed and wben the judiciary has
failed. tben the Sovereign speaks through Parliament to redress
injustice and bo correct the malaises created by such a
miiscanriage of justice.
Honourable senators. the preamble to Bihl S- Il reads as
flou\5s:
I Senlaroi

CooRs

I

Honourable senators, this matter appears on the Order Paper.
Is it out of order?
The Hon. the Speaker pro tempore: I will not engage in any
dialogue or debate with the honourable senator, but I will finish
what 1 started to, say.
I started to say that 1 would be derelict in my duty if I were to
permit reference to the substantive matter. The Honourable
Senator Cools was recogniLed in order te0 make a submission to
the point of order raised by the Honourable Senator Kinsella.
Rather than interrupt the honourable senator again, 1 point oui for
ber guidance rule 18(3), which states:
Wben the Speaker has been asked to, decide any question of
privilege or point of order he or she shail determine when
sufficient argument bas been adduced te decide the malter.
whereupon the Speaker shall so indicate 10 the Senate....
I draw that rule to the attention of the bonourable senator so
that in putting together the various matters she wisbes 10 submit,
she will be conscious of it. 1 am sure she would not wish t0
breacb the spirit or letter of tbat rule.
Senator Cools: Honourable senators, perbaps I should close
there.
Hon. John B. Stewart: Honourable senators. unfortunately,
two points of order have been contounded. Senator Carstairs
mentioned a point of order and cited the precedent of Bill S-10.
That bill was betore this house on May 9 of Ibis year.
When second reading of Bill S-10 was called. Senator
Gauthier rose and said be had a point of order on the item. The
Speaker intervened saying that he would listen 10 tbe honourable
senator's point of order and tbat the bill was flot before us yet
because second reading had flot been moved. He agreed,
however, to listen 10 a point ot order.
As it later emerged, the point of order was flot valid because it
was flot raised at the correct time. The Speaker will want to take
mbt account that example because we do flot want two dittèrent
rules as to wben a point of order may be raised when the order
for the second reading of a bill bas been read.
The other point of' order. raised by the Honourable Senator
Kinsella, I believe will be taken under advisement by the
Speaker.
We must ask. does this hall int any of' the categ-ories ot buis
xxith which this bouse dealsl Clearly. this is not a private bill.
Kai la Homoika is fot. tbrougb petition foIIo\s cd by bih. seeking
somle special îreatmlenî or remnedy to he i iuposed bx Parhiamient.

October 19, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

Is it then a public bill? That is the question to be answered. I
believe it is a sound principle of legislation that, in criminal
matters, Parliament should not enact retroactive law. The
procedural question, however, is whether there is any bar in our
rules to the enactment of retroactive criminal legislation,
legislation which, because it is retroactive, will apply only in
particular cases, the cases which are then a matter of fact.
This second question is a much more important one for the
Speaker. I do not know what the answer is. but the Speaker, as
advised, will be able to help us. Is there any prohibition, as a
matter of order, against this house dealing with a bill which is, in
effect, retroactive in a criminal matter?
PEARSON AIRPORT AGREEMENTS
CONSIDERATION OF SECOND REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITEEDEBATE ADJOURNED

The Senate proceeded to consideration of the second report of
the Special Committee of the Senate on the Pearson Airport
Agreements, (Address to His Excellency the Governor General
requesting documents), presented in the Senate on Tuesday,
October 17, 1995.
Hon. Finlay MacDonald: Honourable senators, I move the
adoption of this report.
The Hon. the Speaker pro tempore: It is moved by the
Honourable Senator MacDonald, seconded by the Honourable
Senator Buchanan, that this report be adopted now.
Is it your pleasure, honourable senators, to adopt the motion?
Hon. John B. Stewart: Is it Senator MacDonald's intention to
explain the report and what is sought by it?
Senator MacDonald: I would be delighted to do that,
honourable senators.
The subject-matter of this report is an address to the Governor
General requesting that Treasury Board submissions made in the
month of August 1993 regarding the Pearson Airport Agreements
be released to the special Senate committee investigating the
efficacy of these very contracts.
When I look around this house, I recognize senators who were
previously members of the House of Commons, and they know
that there is nothing new in the practice that states that addresses
can be made requesting the production of papers obtained from
the Governor in Council.

2143

Her Majesty concerning the operation of section 26 of the
Constitution Act. Peter Milliken, on October 1, 1990, presented a
humble address to his Excellency praying that he will cause to be
laid before the House copies of records detailing the total cost of
the deployment of Canadian Forces personnel to Oka, Quebec.
Svend Robinson, on May 5, 1992, presented a humble address to
His Excellency praying that he will cause to be laid before the
House of Commons copies of all documentation, notes,
memoranda, legal opinions and other relevant information
concerning the decision of the Secretary of State for External
Affairs on the matter of a request for expulsion by the Brazilian
government of Canadian prisoners Christine Lamont and David
Spencer.
All of these humble prayers were certainly not frivolous, but
most did not get anywhere. They were simply told that these
documents were exempt from production. They were cabinet
confidences.
Apparently, they were not using the best prayer mats.
The House of Commons general legal counsel, Diane
Davidson, states in her paper that the Commons have never
formally acknowledged "Crown privilege." She states at page 7
of her testimony to the Joint Committee on the Scrutiny of
Regulations on November 6:
It should be noted that this immunity has never been
formally acknowledged by the House of Commons as
inhibiting its investigatory powers. The public interests
which need to be considered and weighed in judicial
proceedings are not the same as the public interests to be
considered and weighed when evidence is sought for
parliamentary purposes. In practice, parliamentary
committees have more readily given consideration to claims
of Crown privilege when invoked by a minister in relation
to national security matters and international affairs rather
than in commercial affairs. However, in final analysis, the
committee remains the final arbiter of such claims.
As Ms Davidson notes, the "impasse" between the executive
and the legislative branches has sometimes been resolved by
arranging compromises. For example, in 1991, the justice
committee in the House agreed to receive information in camera
when faced with a valid claim of Crown immunity.

This procedure for the production of papers in the House is
Standing Order 97(1). This procedure has been used frequently in
the past in the House of Commons, but no cases can be found
with regard to the Senate.

When this house of Parliament gives a mandate to a committee
to conduct an inquiry or an examination, the committee, referred
to as a parliamentary committee, becomes an integral part of the
house of Parliament. As such, these committees are given the
power by Parliament to examine and inquire into matters referred
to them on behalf of the house of Parliament - in this case, the
Senate - where it would, for obvious reasons, be impractical for
the parent body itself to carry out this mandate.

There are many examples where members of the other place
have asked that an address be presented to his Excellency
praying that a certain paper be laid before the House. I will
mention only three. A distinguished senator, then a distinguished
Member of the House of Commons, Jean-Robert Gauthier, on
September 27. 1990, presented a humble address to his
Excellency praying that he would cause to be laid before the
House copies of all correspondence between his Excellency and

Provided a committee's inquiry is related to a subject-matter
within Parliament's competence. and is also within the
committee's own orders of reference. parliamentary committees
have virtually unlimited powers to compel the attendance of
witnesses and to order the production of documents. I think we
can agree that the extensive powers a parliamentary committee
enjoys are not commonly understood. are seldom exercised and,
therefore, are not properly respected.

I will attempt to describe the document problems that have
bedeviled the committee over the last few months on a regular
basis. Suffice it to say that ail senators on the committee have
been frustrated by the late arrivai of documents, the fact that
parts of documents have been whited-out pursuant to either the
Canada Evidence Act or the Access to Information Act, or to
solicitor-client privilege.
These "whiteouts" have created an atmosphere wherein
sometimes we are being denied things that we consider are
pertinent to the committee's mandate. We have been frustrated by
the circuitous route which the documents take before they arrive
in the hands of the clerk, as well as the fact that a private law
firm and forensic accountants have been hired by the
government. at public expense, and given access to aIl
documents because they have taken an oath of confidentiality.
However, when the members of the committee suggested a
compromise and proposed that counsel for the committee be
granted access to confidential information on the same basis that is, by taking the same oath - our proposai was rejected.
Those, honourable senators. are the day-to-day problems of
documentation, the subject-matter of this report. Indeed, its
purpose is to address one particular issue that has arisen in the
last few weeks.
When this committee was constituted, it was given the power
to send for persons, papers and records whenever required.
Beauchesne's ParlianentarY Rues & Forn. 6th Edition.
citation 848(1) states:
Committees may send for any papers that are relevant to
their Orders of Reference. Within this restriction, it appears
that the power of the committee to send for papers is
unlimited.
Citation 848(2) states:
The procedure for obtaining papers is for the committee
to adopt a motion ordering the required person or
organization to produce them. If this Order is not complied
with, the committee may report the matter to the House,
stating their difficulties in obtaining the requested
documents. It is then for the House to decide what action is
to be taken.
Honourable senators, your committee has already requested
these documents. Early in our mandate, we wrote to the
Department of Justice requesting aIl the documents given to
Mr. Robert Nixon for his perusal. The reply came back that we
could have them aIl, save and except the Treasury Board
documents which were given inadvertently to Mr. Nixon.

Goudge, Mr. Robert Nixon's legal advisor, in answer to a
question put to him by me:
Mr. Goudge: Let me respond this way, senator. Did I
derive support for some of the things in the Treasury
Board's submissions? Absolutely yes, absolutely yes. I
mean I did; there is no question about it. When I put
forward my memorandum to Mr. Nixon, parts of it relied
heavily on what was in the Treasury Board submission.
Senator Bosa: Was he swom in?
Senator MacDonald: He was under oath.
It became apparent to us that. in order to complete our work
properly. we needed to review ail of the documents. What was
our work?
Our work was an examination of public policy with regard to
the privatization of Canadian airports and, in particular, Pearson
International Airport. We did not know where we were going; we
did not know what the result would be. We wanted to have access
to ail of the information that existed, in order that we could base
our report on the facts and on the testimony of the 66 witnesses
who appeared before us. That leads me to where we are today.
The procedure for an address to the Governor General
requesting these documents finds its authority in rule 132 of the
Rules of the Senate which states:
When the royal prerogative is concerned in any account
or paper, an address shall be presented to the Governor
General praying that the same may be laid before the
Senate.
We have determined that the release of these documents is
within the prerogative of the Governor General. It is stated in
Article 9 of the Manual of the Government of Canada under the
heading of "Cabinet Records":
Disclosure of cabinet records is regulated by the Privy
Councillor's oath and by the concept that cabinet decisions
are advice to the sovereign which may only be revealed with
his consent.
I assume the "his" is referring to George VI.
Permission is sought through the Prime Minister who may
recommend to the Governor General that it be granted,
limited or refused. Permission is regarded as applying only
to the occasion for which it is sought.
In other words, the confidentiality of the advice contained in
the cabinet documents belongs to the Governor General. It is for
the Governor General to release the documents from that
confidence.

Before our committee, Mrs. Margaret Bloodworth of the Privy
I conclude with these comments: Ours has been a very
Council Office said that these documents have the status of
confidential cabinet documents and were released to Mr. Robert hard-working committee which has taken its task seriously. Our
Nixon in error. When Mr. Nixon and his staff appeared before Lis final report will not be unanirnous. Committee members will
draw different conclusions from the evidence we have heard. To
for the first time. we leariied that not only had they reviewed
suggest that the report will be free of partisanship would be to
these documents. they had relied heavily on various parts of then
indulce in fiction.
lor sections of their report. Here are the words of Mr. Stephen

1Scniatoi

M'acDonald]

October 19, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

2145

However. 1 arn grateful f'or the courtesy shown to me by ail
members of the committee. and for the absence of acnimony. 1
arn particularly grateful to Senator Kirby. the Deputy Chairman
of the committee. who said that these were flot easy matters to
sort out or to resolve. However, he suggested that, as senators,
we are in a unique position to do so. He went on to say that
courts and royal commissions are sometimes ill-suited to deal
with matters which evolve in a swir] of political controversy. He
pointed out, however, that if we follow the traditions and rules of
Senate procedure and our rights, we can ail make a useful
contribution.

opinions, and in this debate on the adoption of the report you will
have an opportunity to express tbem.

However today, honourable senators, you are not being asked
to participate in matters that are before our comrnittee. You are
flot being asked to take sides. You are not being asked to predict
or even to speculate on the advice the Prime Minister may give
to the Governor General. You will, I arn confident, have many

On motion of Senator Graham, for Senator Kirby, debate
adjoumned.

1 do flot mind you telling me that this report is quixotic, that it
may he doomed to failure. that it is flot worth doing. and that
since we may flot get the documents, we should flot even ask for
them. At the end of the day, aIl that is being asked of this
chamber of parliamefitarians, this house of Parliament, is that
you adopt our report; a report that employs a traditionai and
appropriate procedure for asserting the rights and the powers of
this house of Parliament. which has givefi a mandate to a
committee which, in tumn, automatically becomes an integral part
of Parliament.

The Senate adjourned until Tuesday, October 31, 1995,
at 2:00 p. m.

THE SENATE
Tuesday, October 31, 1995
The Senate met at 2 p.m.. Senator Maurice Riel. Acting
Speaker. in the Chair.
Prayers.

SENATORS' STATEMENTS
NATIONAL UNITY
RESULT 0F QUEBEC REFERENDUM

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, yesterday we aIl witnessed a watershed in
the history of our country. The referendum held in the Province
of Quebec was about the very existence of Canada. It was truly
about choosing to continue or to end the political and economic
union which has been built over the generations to create what
we believe to be the best country in this world.
As 1 stand here today. I share in the relief and the gratitude of
Canadians in every province and territory that this great country
remains whole. 1 share also in the conviction that the outcomne
expressed a desire for change. The resulis compel us to reach out
to the people of' Quebec. as they must reach out to each other.
Those passions and emotions of recent weeks will not subside
overnight. or even within a few days. There must be time for
healing and time for reconciliation.
Before looking ahead to the future. 1 should like to thank aIl of
those who have worked so hard and given so much of their time
and energies to the pursuit of this common vision of a united
Canada. 1 want to thank senators on both sides of this chamber
who set aside their différences and joined together as a teamn in
this common cause, under the guidance of Daniel Johnson, the
Leader of the Opposition in Quebec. Prime Minister Jean
Chrétien. the minister responsible for the No campaign. the
Honourable Lucienne Robillard, and the Leader of the
Progressive Conservative Party, Jean Charest. What a team il
was! Canadians from every part of this country took enormous
pride in not just the eloquence of these voices but the
commitment that each of those players had in the pursuit of this
particular endeavour.
1 also want to recogniLe the support and the contribution to the
cause of' unity in this country made by the Cree Nation and by
the Inuit in Northern Quebec.
[Translation]

The referendumn had to do with the tuture of' aIl Canadians. not
just those who live in Quebec. The whole country realized that.

[Elnglislil
1-onourable senators. last Friday. October 27. Canadians
denionstrated ihis when thevx came to Monîtreal h\ tlie thoLus,,tds.
t'rom e very part o' f tlie nation, to loi n \v ith more than

100.000 Quebecers in the largesi political rally in our history:, a
truly amaiing aI1d extraordinary event. The new relationships
which formed during the short period of time that we stood
elbow to elbow in that multitude have almost gone further than
words can say to cernent a visceral understanding of the meaning
of Canada, particularly for people who perhaps had neyer before
been in the Province of Quebec or. as one of my colleagues said
today. who live in Montreal and had neyer met a person from
Saskatchewan. it was a truly memorable occasion.
Over the course of' the weekend. we witnessed similar public
expressions of unity. perhaps spurred by the event in Montreal. in
cities and towns in aIl of' the provinces and territories that we
represent; people joining together to affirm their belief in a
united Canada, a Canada which would be truly unrecognizable
without Quebec as an integral part of its heart and soul. Indeed,
perhaps the depth of feeling unleashed in these communities
across the country was a revelation even to ourselves about the
depth of our love and our commitment to Canada.
Last night. Prime Minister Chrétien said:
There is only one winner: the people.
Mr. Chrétien spoke those words in the context of the
democratic process. When we look around the world at the
turmoil and hardship that similar differences of vision can evoke.
aIl of us. no matter on which side of this question we stood, cau
take pride that here in Canada we use peaceful means of debate
and decision-making.
The referendum was about democracy; it was about the
democratic process where differences are resolved through
debate. through argument, through discussion, and finally,
through the ballot box.
By no means can last night's result be seen as a strong
affirmation of "steady as she goes," the status quo. That much is
clear. Undoubtedly, many of those who voted on the Yes side did
not do so out of a desire to dismantie the country. but because
they wanted change. By the same token, it cannot be said that ail
of those who voted No did so because they reject change to their
way of life or the country in which they five; far from it.
Honourable senators. change is desired, not only in Quebec
but also in Alberta and in every other province and territory in
this country. It is desired across the land, and it is a commitment
of the federal government. However. today we know that we can
work for that change within a whole Canada. We can work for
change out of a set of common values and deep traditions.
Honourable senators. that gives me great hope for and
confidence in the future of our Canada. and in a process that
emibraces and involves ail ot its citizens. gives equal value to the
rights and worth ot ail Canadians. and a vote to eaeh citiz'en. We
iii this eounîrii- have a £great opportunitv to draws lessons fronm the
eN ents of, \esîerdav. in1order to buîIld eN~en creater sti ensth. unity
and undersiandine.'

October 31, 1995

SENATE DEBATES
SENATE DEBATES

October3l, 1995

2147
2147

Hon. John Lynch-Staunton (Leader of the Opposition):
Honourable senators, I trust that we will have occasion in the
coming days and weeks to discuss in detail the implications of
the referendum, not only for Quebec but for the entire country.

understood in conceiving the two characters that make up their

If the margin of victory in favour of the Nos had been greater,
the commitment made by the Prime Minister in the last few days
of the campaign - of which Senator Fairbairn bas reminded us
- would still remain: change, and only with the approval of
Quebecers. For change and dissatisfaction are what the
referendum was ail about. Not ail those who voted Yes are
separatists, and not ail those who voted No are supporters of the
status quo. One senses from both sides a massive desire for
change in how the Canadian federation is set up, in particular
with regard to the distribution of jurisdictions.

one of the most painful periods in our history. We know ail about

[Translation]

problems largely assigned to it by countries which cannot and

The word "change" constantly appeared in the comments
made this morning and last night, not only by people from the
Yes and the No sides, but also by spokespersons representing
various provinces. That is already a step forward. However, the
basic issue remains the same, namely: what specific changes are
we talking about? We can only hope to find out in the near
future, otherwise Quebecers will certainly be invited to make
another decision, which could be the final one, as was almost the
case yesterday.
[English]

No constitutional or administrative changes are possible,
however, unless the federal government changes the way in
which it carries out its relationships with its federation partners.
For nearly two years it bas been generally dismissive of
provincial concerns, and not only those emanating from Quebec.
Rigidity and lack of flexibility have no place in a federation if it
is to function properly. Openness and understanding are needed.
If the government takes only that message from the many
messages emanating yesterday from Quebec, the future is already
brighter for ahl of Canada.

UNITED NATIONS
FIFTIETH ANNIVERSARY OF FOUNDING

Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourable senators, over the last few weeks a
chorus of debate has accompanied two monumental events in the

history of Canada and of the world: the Quebec Referendum and,
of course, the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of the United
Nations.
Logical cases have been made, some in favour of burying the
"Parliament of Man." as the United Nations has been called, and
others in favour of conceiving new visions to sustain the world
organization over the next 50 years.
Many have said that the United Nations is in crisis. We have
heard that there are two faces to any crisis, as the Chinese so well

word for "crisis." One of these characters symbolizes danger; the
other symbolizes opportunity.
Over the last few weeks, we Canadians have been undergoing
the two faces of crisis. Both the United Nations, the world
federation, and Canada, our own great multicultural federation,

have become easy targets to their enemies. This is largely
because of the fact that in both cases we have tried to do what
many have thought was impossible.
While I am, and always have been, an unabashed supporter of
the United Nations, I am well aware of the dramatic overhaul
needed to revive what bas become, in the opinion of some, a flat
broke organization. It is an organization which must take on
almost ail of the monumental problems of the global community;
will not themselves resolve their own problems.
Fifty years ago last week, the founders - most of whom were
realists who had lived through the horrors of war and depression
- set out with a conviction that theirs was the responsibility to
build the postwar order in which peace would be secured, in
which poverty would be alleviated and in which human rights
would be promoted worldwide. In other words, these were
realists who were at the same time visionaries. These were
pragmatists with a dream.
Lester B. Pearson was one of the pathfinders in this working
world community, and our legendary peacekeepers have helped
preserve the peace in dozens of hot spots around the world.
Agencies of the United Nations helped eradicate small pox. They
made dramatic advances in the war against malnutrition and
child poverty. They helped regulate aviation and shipping. They
did ground-breaking research into environmental and agricultural
problems which many believed to be irresolvable. This was
indeed a working world community. It oversaw decolonization
and established global approaches to poverty, refugees, and
sustainable development.
We will ail remember, particularly tonight, that UNICEF's
literacy programs gave hope to millions of children ail over the
world. Canadians proved to be energetic and compassionate
citizens of this working world community, and this was no
coincidence.
Our Canadian federation mirrored that of the international
community. It is, in fact, a microcosm of the planet. Our values,
the values of a generous, compassionate democracy, are basically
the values which inspired the founders of the United Nations.
Our dream, the dream of a community based on tolerance and
justice, is the dream which bas inspired the generations of those
who have given their ail to the betterment of the human
condition.
In some ways, Canada has been built on a vision which many
may have considered impossible. Because of this, our federation,
as well as that of the United Nations, has become an easy target
for its enemies. I believe, and certainly hope, that we have ail
learned from this experience. We aIl now understand that the
greatest threat to our nation and to the global community is the
threat of indifference. intransigence and paralysis.

As I said earlier, we must remember that crisis wears two
faces: one of danger and one of opportunity. Today, we must
forge opportunity from danger. We must constructively engage in
the day-to-day acts of will and commitment which are the
lifeblood of national unity. We must remember that we are not
alone in our commitment to fair and tolerant federations, both
nationally and internationally.
Honourable senators, I believe that history and the future are
both on our side.
[Translation]
NATIONAL UNITY
RESULT OF QUEBEC REFERENDUM

Hon. Gérald-A. Beaudoin: Honourable senators, these are
historic times for Canada. Yesterday, the stakes were very high.
A chapter of our history just concluded. We must reflect on it
and let things settle somewhat. I think that the federal
govemment will have to take the initiative.
Yesterday's outcome, which was in favour of the federalists,
will trigger some changes. The Prime Minister extended a hand
to the premier of Quebec. A conciliatory approach must be used.
This is essential and unavoidable. Some creative spirit will also
be required. In the end, we will have to find a modus vivendi. We
will have to think and find new approaches. Such approaches
exist. The status quo does not exist. We were able to innovate at
every tuming point in our history. The time has come to do so
once again. Federalism is a flexible formula, and it is up to us to
adapt it to current needs.
Administrative arrangements must be concluded in various
sectors, including manpower. We must leave the door open to
institutional changes, but these changes must be well identified.
In our debates, we must avoid falling into old habits. We may
have to change our vocabulary somewhat and use a different
approach regarding amendments. Above all, let us not miss this
opportunity. which may well no longer exist in the future.
In the meantime, we must treat the existing Constitution with
great respect. We do not refer to it enough in the current debate.
Our social reforms will have to take into account the respective
fields of jurisdiction of the two levels of govemment. We live in
a great and beautiful country. Our ancestors had a grand vision. It
is now up to us to improve our political system and give it a new
impetus and a better balance.
[English]
Hon. Gerry St. Germain: Honourable senators, I want to
congratulate and thank those who provided the leadership for the
No side in the Quebec referendum. Specifically, I thank those on
the front line; namely, the Leader of the Opposition in Quebec,
Daniel Johnson: the minister in charge of the No campaign. the
Honourable Lucienne Robillard; and. of course. the leader of my
party, the Honourable Jean Charest. for their tremendous efforts
on hehalf of Canadian unity.
[ Seiatoi Graham J

Honourable senators, never in the history of our great nation,
as we slowly, cautiously and quietly back away from the
precipice of disaster, have we ever needed greater leadership at
the federal level. I mentioned "leadership." I do not want it to be
confused with political opportunism because the stakes are much
too high. Many of us saw the values in and the need for the
Meech Lake Accord, saw it as a partial resolution to the
problems that we face today as a nation. It was not perfect, but it
addressed many of the problems.
We must never again allow those who would oppose the likes
of these positive initiatives to succeed. They and their
conspirators very nearly destroyed our nation. We must never let
our likes and dislikes when it comes to personalities cloud our
vision as we work toward a better and stronger Canada.
It is time to reach out to the regions - and here I speak to the
government of the day - Quebec, the Western provinces, the
North, our aboriginal peoples, and all of those who feel alienated
and disaffected. It is time that Ottawa stopped trying to tell
people arbitrarily what is best for them and that only a prime
minister or ministers know what kind of country Canadians
really want. Most of all, it is time to consider the concerns of the
people who voted Yes yesterday in the Province of Quebec and
all the people across this great nation who want change.
[Translation]
Hon. Pierre Claude Nolin: Honourable Senators. I had no
text prepared, but I could not miss such a great opportunity to
speak of my active involvement in working for the No coalition,
which in the last week we were calling the Canada side.
Canada won, at about 10:30 p.m. yesterday. It was a victory
for Canada. I would like you to understand that it may be
Canada's last victory.
It is important for us all to understand the message sent by this
decision, this outcome. We must understand the depth of the
message and we must respond to it. Quebecers on the No side
and Quebecers on the Yes side both want change. All of the
leaders of the No side came to use the word "change." Last night.
the only word on everyone's lips was "change," a change of
attitude. That is what is needed first. It is not like a shopping list,
a granting of this or that power and the right to use it. It is a
change in attitude.
Let us understand what Quebecers want, and not only
Quebecers, what a number of Canadians want. We managed to
put political partisanship aside within the No coalition.
Unfortunately - and I stress how unfortunate it was, weighing
my words carefully - that political partisanship came flooding
back last night. I trust that we will do everything possible to
leave our short-sighted partisan objectives aside and to keep our
eyes focused on the objective: the preservation of Canada. Mark
my words, we came within a hair's breadth of losing it.
This may be the last victory for Canada. I would like you to
think about that. This was a major event, not just turning one of
the many pages in Canada's history, but perhaps the most
important page in our history. We have tried many ways of
solving the problems of Canadian federalism. Now we must act
in its inal but perhaps most fruitful phase.

October 31,

1995

SENATE DEBATES

Hon. John Sylvain: Honourable senators, the events of recent
weeks, culminating in last night's very narrow victory for the No
side, will become a most decisive moment for us in Canada.
[En glish]

The referendum campaign galvanized feelings of patriotism
across this country. Never before have Canadians sought to reach
out to the people of Quebec as they did in the last few days. I
believe we can build on these feelings, and move toward
redefining our country.
There is much unfinished work to do; work begun by former
Prime Minister Mulroney through the Meech Lake and
Charlottetown Accords, building toward a new federalism still
remaining to be completed.
As the leader of the federal Progressive Conservative Party has
said throughout the referendum campaign [Translation]

There is a wind of change in Canada in 1995. This was
confirmed in four provincial elections. These governments
have a clear mandate for change. It is a wind of change we
cannot escape.
[English]

At this point in our history we should look at the options
available to effect change in our federal system. Inasmuch as
politicians of every stripe and every country have lost their
credibility with the people, the federal government should
consider establishing a non-political group charged with
redefining the broad parameters of a new national accord. Three
neutral persons could be charged with naming those who would
serve, but would not themselves serve.
Representatives from universities, the professions, business,
unions, et cetera, forming a relatively small group, should report
in a reasonable length of time. This report could be distributed
across the country for popular discussion and comment. It could
thereafter form the basis of political discussions leading to the
1997 review of the Constitution, while constraining the
participants to a non-political, non-partisan framework.
I have no way of knowing whether such a plan would work,
but I deem it preferable to the Meech Lake or the Charlottetown
process, if only because partisanship and political pressures
would be a reaction to a proposai instead of having been the
author of it.
Hon. Stanley Haidasz: Honourable senators, I wish to add my
congratulations to federalist leaders and workers for their
successful campaign leading to a No victory, for a definite No to
the separation of Quebec, preserving, thereby, the integrity of
Canada. In particular, I offer my congratulations to the people of
Quebec for observing their democratic duty in a record turnout at
the polls.
In particular this afternoon. I offer a hearty endorsement of the
negotiations proposed by the Prime Minister of Canada to the

2149

people of Quebec and ail Canadians, and especially of his call for
national reconciliation and true healing.
The need for negotiations to start in earnest is heralded in the
narrow success of the campaign for unity. As the Leader of the
Opposition in the House of Commons said again this morning in
a news conference, this is a time to show good faith in the
undertaking made by the federalist spokespersons in recognition
of viable aspirations of a distinctive francophone society in
Quebec. I believe that this is a legitimate part of the uniquely
Canadian heritage contained in section 27 of the Canadian
Charter of Rights and Freedoms in the context of
multiculturalism. There remains a basis for hope and for
amicable negotiation on patrimoine, the historic aspirations of
Quebecers.
Many people of Quebec would welcome agreement over
separation. Another half of Quebec wants negotiations in a
context free of any threat of separation. but the statement by the
Premier of Quebec, blaming minority ethnic groups in Quebec
for the narrow loss of a separatist initiative, does not truly reflect
a solid basis of hope. Instead, it bespeaks the urgency for the
Premier of Quebec to make a public apology to ail Canadians for
the discriminatory and racist tone of his post-referendum speech.
A statesman in his right senses could not wish to undermine
important and indispensable trust in his goodwill. The closeness
of the result in the referendum of yesterday has demonstrated the
political alertness of ail of the people of Quebec, and their
concern to preserve and to enhance their distinctive culture.
May we, honourable senators, commence today, here in this
chamber, in this capital and in our communities, a process of
conciliation and reconciliation without delay, but also with
peace, justice and tolerance.
NOVA SCOTIA
CONGRATULATIONS TO DR. JOHN HAMM ON ELECTION
AS LEADER OF PROVINCIAL PROGRESSIVE CONSERVATIVE PARTY

Hon. Gerald J. Comeau: Honourable senators, much
attention has been given over the last number of days to the
national unity question, and much will be said in the coming
weeks about it. I plan to make some statements on that subject as
well.
However, today I should like to call the attention of
honourable senators to some other changes that took place over
the weekend in Nova Scotia. I wish to extend sincere
congratulations to Dr. John Hamm, who was elected the new
leader of the Progressive Conservative Party of Nova Scotia.
With a solid first-ballot victory, Dr. Hamm has given the
governing Liberals reason for concern. Presenting the 1,000-plus
Tories who attended the convention with a solid five-point plan,
Dr. Hamm will provide Nova Scotians with a real alternative to
the disgraceful record of the Liberal Party under Premier John
Savage. The only similarity which could ever be found between
the two leaders is that they are both family physicians. However,
their prescriptions for healing the economic health of our
province are very different.

Nova Scotians have watched John Savage and the Liberal
gavernment destroy our hcalth care and educational systerns. In
Dr. Hamm,. we now have a leader who will apply the proper
medicine to our ailments. Rather than Bandaid solutions. Nova
Scotians have the choice of electing a leader who will listcn.
recognize the strengths of our province and work to develop
those areas into sound econornic solutions for Nova Scotians as
we head into the twenty-first century.
Rather than dismiss various groups within our province, John
Hamm will ensure that evcryone's voice is hcard. With a
comrnitmcnt to rebuild the party and develop clear policics
through province-wide consultations. Nova Scotians wilI now
have the representation thcy deserve. rather than the autocratic.
from-the-top-down style of governing with which they have bcen
"Savaged- within the last two and a haîf years.
I should like to extend my congratulations to the other two
contenders. Jirn White and Michael MacDonald, who ran
excellent campaigns. They and Dr. Hammn have dcmonstrated
that the caîl of' political office indced is answcrcd by dedicated
individuals who are truly committed to public service.
John Hamrn is following in the footsteps of rnany great Tory
leaders who have served Nova Scotia proudly over the years:
Bob Stanfield. Don Carneron. Terry Donahoe. who was recently
the interim leader. and our colleague here in the Senate. Senator
John Buchanan.
1 arn sure that many of' ry colleagues will join with me in
extending sincere congratulations to the new leader of the
PC Party of Nova Scotia and our next premier. Dr. John Harnm.
NATIONAL UNITY
PROPOSED ESTABLISHMENT 0F COMMITLE
ON REGIONAI ASPIRAI-IONS

Hon. Raymond J. Perrault: Honourable senators, Canada bas
been given a temporary reprieve:. rescued at the lasi minute almost like a caîl frorn the governor to the prison to stay an
execution.
May I suggest that. in addition to the commendable sentiments
that have been expressed here today. we should do sornething
very practical in the Senate. We should do that for which we
were established - that is, to reintorce regional interests in this
country and to interpret correctly the regional problems and
aspirations of the people of Canada.
When I was the Leader of the Government in the Senate. 1
proposed that we establish a standing comrnittee on regional
aspirations. whose members would spend rnost of their time out
in the tield talking to the people of Canada who. at the present
tirne. seem ta have a deep mistrust of ail politicians. regardless of
party. If there is ta be an agreernent cratted in this land, it may
nat be by the premiers of the provinces of Canada. For sorne
reasan. they are îlot conmpletely trtîsted. It bas been demonstrated.
tinie and again. that. increasing-l'. the people want direct input
iio the process ai rceewinc Contederation and enacting retarnis.

rSculiio

Con

1

Let us create such a committee. Let us go into ail the regions
of Canada and learn what the people expect trom Confederation.
and what they are willing to do to support modifications in
Confederation to make this a more effective country. That is
what we should be doing.
0 (144o)i

Speeches are fine in this house. Howcver. none of them will
ever be reported in the media, the members of which are
obsessed with other considerations. We should immediately take
up our basic responsibility, go into the regions and report on the
problerns we find. We do flot have to wait l'or a directive from the
government, the House of'Commons or anyone cIsc. It is our job
to get it donc. 1 arn sure that the process can be established on a
non-partisan basis. There is not a senator in this chamber who is
more concerned about enhancing a narrow political position than
our national wclfare.
We have seen a number of our senators in operation in these
committees in the past. and they can be very effective.
What happcned to this idea when it was first broachcd in this
chamber a few years ago? At the time. one or Iwo cabinet
ministers said. "We do flot want a Senate comrnittee coming into
our backyard crnbarrassing us in front of our people." If that
cornrittcc had been establishcd back then, we would be in a
much better position as a nation right now.
Let us get on with the job of putting the Senate to work. Let us
dernonstrate our worth to the Canadian people and get rnoving.

ITranslation]
Hon. Marcel Prud'homme: Honourable senators. 1 want to
thank everyone who took part in this very important retcendurn.
1 agrce with Senator Lynch-Staunton when he says that we
should have a more detailed discussion on the subject. 1 also
agree with what was said by my friend Senator Perrault, and my
neighbour and good friend Senator St. Germain.
Earlier, I heard two senators who rcally inspired me to risc in
rny seat. 1 know this annoys a lot of people because 1 rernember
once 1 was told[Etnglishj
"Oh. not him again,"
[Translation]
when 1 talkcd about Canada. I have donc so often since I came
to the Senate. I did so for 30 years in the House of Commons. I
talkcd about Canada in the Liberal Party of Canada. to which 1
dcdicated my whole life and aIl rny encrgy, with al] the
misunderstandings that that involved. unfortunatcly. I hear
speeches about the United Nations. 1 have always been inspired
by the desire to make Canada a real example for the rest of the
world. and to be able to say to the whole world: Corne and sec
how we do things in our country. That is why I was afraid of this
reterenduni. What kind of' message would it be to a world thal
bas far more probleins with division than we do? Hawever. we
have ta keep working.
-

October 31, 1995

October 31, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

SENATE DEBATES

People talked about partnership between Quebec and the rest
of Canada during this campaign. I say: Let us start - and I see
my friends Senators Watt and Adams, but especially Senator
Watt - in Quebec by setting up an outstanding and genuine
partnership with our aboriginal people.
After that, let us establish a genuine partnership among ail
Quebecers, irrespective of their ethnic origins, religion or
political affiliation, and let them have the freedom to vote as they
choose.
I spent my entire political life in a riding with a constituency
that was so diverse that I remember senators who, although they
hardly talk to me today, always used to come to my meetings
because they said my riding was a microcosm of what Montreal
would be 25 years hence, meetings where I tried to get together
all these groups from ail over the world. However, we must not
fall into the trap of hypocrisy and misrepresentation. We will
make speeches in the United Nations. We have what we need in
Canada. Let us find the solutions.
I have a message for you. I am no longer a member of the
Liberal caucus. There are people here who are going to make a
lot of nice speeches. Tell them to start by practising what they
preach. There are still people in the House of Commons who, out
of disdain or incomprehension, objected strenuously to the
Meech Lake Accord. Three of them are in cabinet. Two are in the
House of Commons, and yesterday one of them admitted - he
was the one who made things the most difficult for me when I
was chairman of the national caucus, but I do not mind that but he admitted last night:
[English]

"After ail, I think I made a mistake."

2151
2151

thousands of people who came to Montreal. They joined with
people in Montreal.
I ask you, honourable senators, what would have happened if
someone had stomped on a Quebec flag in the middle of the
referendum campaign anywhere in Canada? It would have been
the subject of the entire debate in Quebec. They would have said,
"Canada is rejecting us. We in Quebec have to make up our own
minds."
It was a great day, and it showed us that people care. At times
I feel they care more than their politicians. That is a message for
Mr. Clyde Wells. We will wait for him. He believes that rights
are rights. I am anxious to see the debate we will have when he
comes with his referendum results. I spent a week in
Newfoundland during the referendum campaign. If rights are
rights are rights, then those rights will be respected in due time.
Should we return to the spirit of Meech Lake? No. Shall we
return to the spirit of Charlottetown? No. Let us return to the
spirit of the Victoria Charter. It was a mistake that it was not
accepted. I am not here today to say that it was done under such
and such prime minister. If was a great event. I am sorry to
say [Translation]

- but I know there are senators who regret our not coming
forward. Let us make use of what was done then, let us make use
of ail the goodwill we saw at the time of the Meech Lake
Accord. I am not particularly fond of the Meech Lake Accord, as
everyone knows.
[English]

That is fine. It is excellent.

I have always said that I do not need a crutch to show that I am
a proud Canadian. I am different, not superior.

[Translation]

[Translation]

We are on the way to finding solutions. However, honourable
senators, we must not imagine that people will prostrate
themselves. I am not and never have been of that race of people,
and I know the word "race" gets people excited. I do not share
the sort of mentality of people who prostrate themselves in front
of others. This country is mine, just as it is yours. This country
will be made with my help as with yours.
[English]

This country will be made with my friend Senator Watt in
Quebec.
[Translation]

He represents the first real inhabitants of Quebec. We have to
work toward such reconciliation.
[English]

I want to say this in English, although I did not want to speak
English today. However, I want to thank very warmly the tens of

I am your equal. My people are your equal.
[English]

Do you understand what it means, or do we need another
referendum to repeat what it means? It is that kind of country the
world is watching, a country where people who are different can
succeed under the same flag, under the distinguished
chairmanship today of [Translation]

- my good friend, Senator Riel. I say we have a lot to offer,
those of us in the Senate, in the job of rebuilding Canada,
however, we have to want to do the job.
We come fron all over Canada. We have ail sorts of
experience. Some people have money; others know people with
money; others know multicultural groups; others know the
organization and others are brilliant intellectuals or teachers. No
one can tell me the Senate does not have a role to play.

CLERK'S ACCOUNTS

The Hon. the Acting Speaker: 1 arn sorry to have to interrupt
the honourable senator, but 1 arn told that his tirne is up. We
could, perhaps. allow hirn to conclude.
Senator Prud'homme: 1 was flot told that tirne was limited.
However, 1 do flot think I have tried rny colleagues' patience
excessively. Since rny tirne is up. 1 wiII stop talking. 1 will.'
however, corne back to this suhject and talk to you about the
province 1 have so often visited, the province of Saskatchewan.
a

4o

REFERRED TO COMMITTEE

Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government) rnoved:
That. notwithstanding ride 58(1 )(f). the Clerk's Accounts
bc referred to the Standing Cornrittee on Internal Econorny.
Budgets and Admninistration.

)

The Hon. the Acting Speaker: Is leave granted. honourable
senators?

[En g/ishi]

Hon. Senators: Agreed
PRIVILEGE

Motion agreed to.

NOT ICE 0F MOTION PURSUANT TO RULE 44

Hon. Anne C. Cools: Honourable senators, I rise to give oral
notice. pursuant to rule 43(7) ot the Ru/es of t/e Senate of
Canada. that 1 shall raise a question of privilege later this
afternoon. Farlier today. I gave written notice to the Clerk of the
Senate as required by rule 43(3).
Honourable senators, 1 shall ask His Honour the Speaker of the
Senate to rule on the facts as I shall brietly outline thern, and to
rule as to whether a prirna facie case of breach ot'privilege exists.
Il' so tound. I arn prepared to rnove the necessary rnotion.

ROUTINE PROCEEDINGS

INCOME TAX CONVENTIONS
IMPLEMENTATION BILL, 1995
FIRST READINGI

The Hon. the Acting Speaker inforrned the Senate that a
rnessage had been received trorn the House of Cornrons with
Bill C-105, to irnplernent a convention between Canada and the
Republic of Latvia. a convention between Canada and the
Republic of Estonia. a convention between Canada and thc
Republic of Trinidad and Tobago. and a protocol between
Canada and the Republic of Hungary. tor the avoidance of'
double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion with respect
to taxes on incorne.
Bill read fhrst finie.

CLERK'S ACCOUNTS
DOCUMENTrS TABI ED

The Hon. the Acting Speaker: Honourable senators. 1 wish to
inforrn the Senate that, pursuant to rule 28(l), the Clerk of the
Senate has laid on the Table a detailcd staternent of Clerk's
receipts and disbursernents for the fiscal year 1994-95.

ADJOURNMENT
Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourable senators, with leave of the Senate.
and notwithstanding rule 58(b)(h), 1 rnove:
That when the Senate adjourns today, it do stand
adJourned until Wednesday. Novernber 1I.1995, at one-thirty
o'chock in the afternoon.

The Hon. the Acting Speaker: Honourable senators. when
shaîl this bill be read the second tirne?
On mnotion of Senator Graharn. bibl placed on the Orders ot the
Day for second reading on Thursday. Novernber 2. 1995.

CULTURAL PROPERTY EXPORT AND IMPORT ACT
INCOME TAX ACT
TAX COURT 0F CANADA ACT
BILL TO AMEND

FIRST READING

The Hon. the Acting Speaker intorrned the Senate that a
rnessage had been received frorn the House of Cornrons with
Bill C-93, to amend the Cultural Property Export and Irnport Act,
the Incorne Tax Act and the Tax Court of Canada Act.
Bill read first tirne.

The Hon. the Acting Speaker: Honourable senators. is leave
granted?

Hon. Senators: Aoreed.
Motion aerieed to.

The Hon. the Acting Speaker: Honourable senators. when
shall this bill be read the second tirne'.
On mnohion oi'Senator Grahamn. bilIl placed o11 the Orders ofh e
Day for second reading o11 Thursday. Nox ember 21.1995.

October DEBATES
1,
1995SENATE

October 31, 1995

CONTROLLED DRUGS AND SUBSTANCES BILL

0

PRESENTATION 0F PETITION

Hon. Gerry St. Germain: Honourable senators, 1 have a
petition to present to the Senate. The tirst paragraph reads:
The petition of the undersigned citizens of Canada
humbly showeth that Bill C-68, a bill concerning firearms
and other weapons, is unwarranted and intrusive legislation
which needlessly targets law abiding firearms owners and
which attacks the very foundation of the democratic
principles of this country.

Bill read first lime.
The Hon. the Acting Speaker: Honourable senators, when
shaîl tbis bill be read the second time?
On motion of Senator Graham, bill placed on the Orders of the
Day for second reading on Thursday, November 2, 1995.

<i SoC)

GUN CONTROL LEGISLATION

FIRST READING

The Hon. the Acting Speaker informed the Senate that a
message had been received from the House of Commons with
Bill C-7, respecting the control of certain drugs, their precursors
and other substances and te, amend certain other Acts and repeal
the Narcotic Control Act in consequence thereof.

2153
25

The signatories are from the areas of Surrey, Langley, White
Rock, Aldergrove and other towns throughout British Columbia.
10

Honourable senators, this is the voice of the regions speaking
you.

CUSTOMS ACT
CUSTOMS TARIFF

QUESTION PERIOD
BILL TO AMEND-FIRST READING

DELAYED ANS WERS TO ORAL QUESTIONS
The Hon. the Acting Speaker informed the Senate that a
message had been received from the House of Commons with
Bill C-102, 10 amend the Customs Act and the Customs Tariff
and 10 make related and consequential amendments to other
Acts.
Bill read first time.
The Hon. the Acting Speaker: Honourable senators, when
shail this bill be read the second time?
On motion of Senator Graham, bill placed on the Orders of the
Day for second reading on Thursday, November 2, 1995.
MINISTERIAL RESPONSE TO
SENATE COMMITTEE REPORTS
NOTICE 0F INOUIRY

Hon. Pat Carney: Honourable senators, I give notice that on
Thursday next, November 2, 1995, I will cati the attention of the
Senate 10 the issue of ministerial response 10 Senate committee
reports. In particular, I note that on July 5, 1995, as Chairman of
the Standing Senate Committee on Energy, the Environment and
Natural Resources, 1 submitted a copy of the committee's report
entitled "Pull up! Pull up!: An interim Report on the Safety
Implications of Automated Weather Observation Systems
(A.W.O.S.)' te the Ministers of Fisheries and Oceans. of'
Environmenî and of Transport. and asked for a response 10 our
recommendations. To date - tour months later -none of these
ministers have issued a response.

Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourable senators, I have responses to
questions raised in the Senate on June 5, 1995, by the
Honourable Senator Di Nino, regarding the validity of a
statement on freedom of religion in Tibet; on June 5, 1995, by
the Honourable Senator Doyle, regarding human rights and
commercial relations; on June 13, 1995, by the Honourable
Senator Nolin, regarding the possibility of increasing the size of
the peacekeeping force in Bosnia; on July 1l, 1995, by the
Honourable Senator Kinsella, regarding the arrest of activists in
China; and on October 4. 1995, by the Honourabie Senator
Kinsella, regarding the ratification of the Human Rights
Convention of the Organization of American States.
CANADA-CHINA RELATIONS
VALIDITY 0F STATEMENT ON FREEDOM 0F RELIGION
IN TIBET-GOVERNMENT POSITION

(Response to question raised bv Hon. Consiglio Di Nino on
lune 5, 1995)

The statement that Tibetans are free to practise their
religion referred to the majority of Tibetans. Those Tibetans
who express nationalist views or are known as sympathetic
to those views, are those who often suffer human rights
violations. It is the combination of nationalism wîth the
practice of religion which features in the majority of cases
of human rights abuse.
The Canadian Government has expressed its deep
concern about the human rights situation in China. including
Tibet. and has asked China to conlormi te ils own
regulations and to international human rights standards.

At the Commission on Human Rights in Geneva
(January-March 1995). Canada co-sponsored a draft
resolution on human rights in China which made specific
reference to Tibet. The resolution expressed concern over
continuing reports of violations of human rights and
fundamental freedoms by local, provincial and national
authorities, and severe restrictions on the rights of citizens
to freedom of assembly, association, expression and
religion, as well as to due legal process and a fair trial. The
resolution also called upon China to take further measures
to ensure the observance of all human rights, including the
rights of women, and to improve the impartial
administration of justice. The resolution also referred to
"inadequate protection of the distinct cultural, ethnic,
linguistic and religious identity of Tibetans and others."
Canada believes that the human rights situation in Tibet
will not improve until the general human rights situation in
the People's Republic of China does so. Canada's policy
regarding Tibet is a two-tiered policy pressing both for
greater respect of human rights in China, in general, and in
Tibet, in particular.
HUMAN RIGHTS AND COMMERCIAL
RELATIONS-GOVERNMENT POLICY
(Response to question raised by Hon. Richard J. Dovle on
June 5, 1995)
Human rights. good governance and the rule of law
constitute one of four pillars upon which Canada-China
relations are built. Respect for human rights and the rule of
law globally and in China remains an essential Canadian
objective. Our China human rights policy has two
objectives:

1. The defense of fundamental human rights as defined
by the United Nations Universal Declaration on
Human Rights and:
2.

The reform of legal structures, democratic
development and the promotion of the rule of law.

Canada has developed a pragmatic human rights strategy
to raise and discuss human rights concerns with the Chinese
authorities both bilaterally and multilaterally.

Multilateral
Multilateral fora such as the United Nations (UN)
represent appropriate channels to pursue specific concems.
The United Nations Commission for Human Rights
(UNCHR) is the forum of the international community
where we believe al] countries are on an equal footing and
subject to an objective assessment by each other. Canada
itself has been singled out for mention in the Commission
on occasion and we accept this as the right of the
international comunitunity. We have made it clear to our
Chinese interlocutors that Canada does not approach
multilateral discussions in the spirit of confrontation. Quite
I Senator Gr ahami 1

the opposite. We seek respect for accepted standards rather
than attempting to impose standards.
At the latest session of the UNCHR (January - March
1995), Canada co-sponsored a draft resolution on human
rights in China. The resolution expressed concern over
continuing reports by local, provincial and national
authorities of violations of human rights and fundamental
freedoms, and severe restrictions on the rights of citizens to
freedom of assembly, association, expression and religion,
as well as to due legal process and a fair trial. It called upon
China to take further measures to ensure the observance of
all human rights, including the rights of women, and to
improve the impartial administration of justice. The
resolution also invited China to continue to cooperate with
all special rapporteurs and working groups.
Canada also declared that China falls short of
international standards in the incarceration of political
detainees, and with respect to equity and transparency in the
judicial system. freedom of expression, and freedom of
religion. Canada called on the Chinese government to
permit access to prisons by international organizations.
These are important steps toward the establishment of the
rule of law and respect for China's human rights obligations.
This year China failed in its attempts to have a no-action
vote being taken on the draft resolution. For the first time,
the resolution was put to a vote but was narrowly defeated
(20 for, 21 against, 12 abstentions).
Bilateral
The Canadian government has gone to considerable
lengths to develop a constructive dialogue on human rights.
Prime Minister Chrétien has emphasized that Canada should
have a constructive. frank and forward-looking dialogue
with China on human rights. and raised our human rights
concerns with senior Chinese leaders during his visit to
China in November 1994.
The Government of Canada believes that the
establishment of the rule of law, based on international
principles of human rights, is the best means to accomplish
this goal. To this end, Canada, in cooperation with Chinese
authorities, has developed and implemented several projects
intended to strengthen China's judicial structure. The Prime
Minister signed several agreements on these projects during
his visit to China. We believe this approach will contribute
to the development of democracy and the rule of law in
China.
The Canadian Government will continue to make its
views on human rights known to the Chinese leadership. At
the same tine. we will undertake specific and progressive
initiatives to engage Chinese decision makers at all levels.
These programs will facilitate positive changes in China in
terms of human ights, eood overnance and the rule Of las.

SENATE DEBATES

October 31, 1995

We believe that trade and human rights are not mutually
exclusive choices. Trade benefits Canada through job
creation -

a government priority -

2155

ORDERS OF THE DAY

but it also supports

economic, social and, inevitably, political reform in the
PRC. We believe a China open to the world can only be
good for its people, both economically and politically, and
will further the cause of respect for human rights.
NATIONAL DEFENCE
PEACEKEEPING IN BOSNIA-POSSIBILITY OF
INCREASING SIZE OF FORCE-GOVERNMENT POSITION

(Response to question raised by Hon. Pierre Claude Nolin on

June 13, 1995)
Upon reviewing the information which was provided to
Mr. Charest during the June 9th briefing session, neither the
official from the Department of National Defence nor the
minister's legislative assistant recalls having made such a
statement. Therefore, it would appear that Mr. Charest or his
staff may have inadvertently misinterpreted the information
which was provided to them.
HUMAN RIGHTS
ARREST OF ACTIVIST IN CHINA-GOVERNMENT POSITION

(Response to question raisedby Hon. Noël Kinsella on July 11,
1995)

The Chinese courts announced on August 24th that
Mr. Wu had been sentenced to 15 years imprisonment and
expulsion from China. The Chinese authorities' decision to
expel Mr. Wu immediately rather than have him serve his
sentence has effectively resolved the situation. Canada did
not make specific representations on behalf of Mr. Wu.
RATIFICATION OF HUMAN RIGHTS
CONVENTION OF ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN
STATES-GOVERNMENT POSITION-DELAYED ANSWER

(Response to question raised by Hon. Noël A. Kinsella on
October 4, 1995)

Federal, provincial and territorial consultations continue
to take place on a regular basis with a view to adhering to
the American Convention on Human Rights.
Officials are working hard to develop a consensus on this
issue.
At this stage, however, since negotiations are still under
way, any positions taken are preliminary in nature and do
not represent the official provincial/territorial position. As
such, they must be kept confidential.

EXPLOSIVES ACT
BILL TO AMEND-SECOND READING

On the Order:
Resuming the debate on the motion of the Honourable
Senator Kenny, seconded by the Honourable Senator
Perrault, for the second reading of Bill C-71, to amend the
Explosives Act.
Hon. William M. Kelly: Honourable senators, I should like to
thank and congratulate Senator Kenny for his remarks on
Bill C-71 and for his support of the bill. Senator Kenny referred
to the two special committees of the Senate on terrorism but, in
his usual modest way, he neglected to mention the very important
role he played on both committees.
Honourable senators, I am sure all of us can recall particularly
poignant moments in our careers as senators. For me, one such
moment was meeting with the alliance of victims' families of Air
India Flight 182. Senators will recall that in the early hours of
June 22, 1985, that particular Air India flight out of Toronto went
down off the coast of Ireland, taking with it 329 passengers,
80 per cent of whom were Canadians. Based on the best evidence
available, it appears that a bomb went off in the baggage hold
blowing off a wing and crippling the aircraft. The aircraft fell
into the sea. The passengers and crew had no chance whatsoever.
As part of the same plot, two baggage handlers were killed at
Narita Airport in Japan while transferring baggage from a
Canadian Pacific flight out of Vancouver to an Air India flight.
Both bombs were plastic explosives moulded into electronic
equipment with timers.
I met the head of the association of victims' families,
Dr. Yogesh Paliwal, and several of his colleagues in my capacity
as chairman of the Special Senate Committee on Terrorism and
Public Safety. The people with whom I met had lost family
members in that tragedy. They lost wives, sons, daughters and
parents.
I remember in coming from the meeting the sense of sorrow I
had for these people who, through no fault of their own, had lost
loved ones. I also felt a deep sense of outrage at the cruel and
cowardly people who would do such a despicable thing as
bombing a defenceless civilian aircraft.
The people I met also sought some meaning in an act that
appears, even today, to defy rational, logical meaning.
Honourable senators, today, in a small but important way, we
give some meaning to the Air India disaster and others like it.
The bill before us implements the International Convention on
the Marking of Plastic Explosives for the Purpose of Detection.
As Senator Kenny pointed out, it was signed in Montreal in
March 1991. The convention was prepared under the auspices of
ICAO and signed by 40 nations. It now awaits ratification and
implementation.

The current Canadian Explosives Act governs the composition. quality.
character and sale of conventional explosives, as well as their inmport. expoil.
possession and storage. The bill betore us today would extend that coverage
woplastie explosiv'es. lIn particular. it will iequire the inarking of plastic
explosives. Once a miarking agent is inserted. the explosives can be detected
bv existing vapour detection technology ai airports and international
crossings. Unrnarked explosives and inventoiy inust be destîoyed within
three years.

There are certain necessary but minor exemptions for rnilitary
applications.
In addition, the bill imposes controls over the import, export.
possession and transfer of plastic explosives in order to reduce
the Iikelihood of their falling into the wrong hands.
As we saw with Air India, plastic explosives of various types
have become the weapons of choice for terrorist groups around
the world. These explosives are easy to hide. They are rnalleableý
they can be sculpted to take virtually any forrn and fit into any
space. They are not volatile. They are extrernely powerful in
termas of their ratio of weight to explosive impact. They are
becorning more and more readily available. They can be
detonated by timning or rernote devices that allow the terrorist to
be far away from the scene at the time of the explosion. Their
impact is such as to guarantee media coverage. "the oxygen of
terrorism" in Margaret Thatcher's memorable phrase. and to
excite public attention and apprehension.
More important. their presence is virtually undetectable. À
thin fine of "Serntex," hardly visible to the naked eye but
strategically hidden in luggage or electronie equipment. can have
a devastating impact.
In addition to Air India 182, plastic explosives have been used
in the Pan-Arn Flight 103 that crashed at Lockerbee. Scotland
and in UTA Flight 722 that crashed in Niger. Africa. Both
crashes killed a total of 442 people.
Plastic explosives have also been used extensively on both
sides in the Northern Ireland conllict.
Although plastic explosives were not used in the World Trade
Center bornbing, the Oklahomna City bornbing or the string of
biker bornbings that recently occurred in Quebec and Ontario,
there is no reason to think that these groups will not gravitate to
plastic explosives as they becorne more sophisticated and as their
targets harden.
The convention - and, in Canada, this bill - seek to remnove
this option. These amendments to the Explosives Act will allow
police, airport security. customns officiaIs and other authorities to
detect the presence of plastic explosives. I arn told these
arnendrnents can be irnplemented at virtually no incremental
cost. The additive required to mark plastic explosives can be
added inexpensively. Current detection equipment at Canadian
airports can already identify the rnarking. No new equipment nor
the retrofit of existing equiprnent is required.
Unfortutiately. however, this act is jtlst a step toward the
resolutton ol the problern. (inly six couintries thal produce plastic
explosivecs. including Canada. with the proclamation of this bilIl.
hav e rali lied the cons ention. Sevei aI major prodLicing couinîrics.
includitie the United States. hav e yet to do so. Ese tihe mnost
1Sena(ior Kell\ 1

naive amongst us cannot expect the outlaw-producing statcs,
those who actively support tcrrorism, to ratil'y or respect the
convention.
The convention will flot corne into force until 40 states.
including at least l'ive producing states. ratify it. Some people
despair that this will ever happen. There are those who would say
then that there is no point. that Bill C- 71 is just window-dressing.
that unmarked plastic explosives will still be available to those
terrorists and criminals who want them. However. we must start
somewhere. Bill C-71, like other initiatives that have corne
before us, is simply another building block in the wall that
Canada and the international community are building to control
terrorism. There are holes in that wall. several huge. gaping
holes. but they are prog,,ressively being closed by individual
initiatives. such as the convention and Bill C-71.
We can be proud of the leadership Canada is showing. Again.
Canada is among the first group of countries to put mechanisms
in place to enforce the convention within our own borders and to
try to reduce the threat of' terrorism dornestically and
internationally.
For that reason. 1 urge the government to proclaim this bill as
soon as possible atter Royal Assent. As with most legislation.
Bill C-71, through clause 4 to be exact, gives the Governor in
Council the power Io proclaim the bill and thus bring it mbt legal
force and effect.
0 IIII)

It is my understanding that the government of the moment
does not intend to proclaim Bill C-71 until there are a sulfficient
number of states ready to ratify the convention and bring it into
effect. Honourable senators, 1 believe that would be a mistake.
This is good legislation. an important initiative. It makes sense
on its own, separate and apart frorn the convention. We are a
country which produces plastic explosives. although the amount
is small in the international scherne of things.
This bill. when proclainmed. will put our own house in order.
At least in this country, we will not be able to continue
manufacturing plastic explosives which are undetectable. It
seems reasonable that Canada should do what it can.
Why should we wait? Why not do it now?
Honourable senators, Bill C-71I is straightforward, noncontentious legislation. It is needed to implernent an important
international convention that has been designed explicitly to
fmustrate terrorists.
1 urge this chamber to pass this legislation quickly. We owe the
victirns of Air India Flight 182 no less.
Motion agreed to and bill read second time.
REERDTO COMMITTEF

The Hon. the Acting Speaker: Honourable senators. when
shaîl this bill be rcad thte third tirnc?
On muotion ol' Senator Kernl.
Senate Cotumlitîc
Resources.

bill relerred to the StandinL,

on EiicreL\. thie Ens il oinient anid Natural

SENATE DEBATES

October 31, 1995

EMPLOYMENT EQUITY BILL

She also made another key statement in her speech:

SECOND READING

We -

On the Order:

-

Resuming the debate on the motion of the Honourable
Senator Losier-Cool, seconded by the Honourable Senator
Marchand, for the second reading of Bill C-64, respecting
employment equity.
Hon. Janis Johnson: Honourable senators, I rise today to
speak at second reading debate on Bill C-64, respecting
employment equity.
This bill was first tabled in the House last December, almost a
year ago. Now after many months of committee hearings
followed by debate, this legislation is before this chamber for our
consideration.
I fully agree with the general purpose of Bill C-64, which is to
achieve equality in the workplace and to correct conditions of
disadvantage experienced by certain groups. However, I do have
a few concerns with this legislation, which I will bring to the
attention of senators after commenting on employment equity
and the substance of the bill.
Once again, I want to state that I endorse the general principle
behind this bill, the principle of employment equity. I believe it is
essential to ensure equitable job access to the designated groups
affected by the legislation. I feel strongly that we need to make
sure that everyone who works in this country is treated fairly and
paid fairly. All Canadians deserve a level playing field and one
where there is full equality of opportunity for employment and
promotion in the workplace.
Under the previous government, the Progressive Conservative
administration worked hard in support of employment equity for
all Canadians. I remind honourable senators that it was the
PC govemment which introduced the Employment Equity Act in
1986. On October 3, 1985, the then minister of Employment and
Immigration, the Honourable Flora MacDonald, said in the
House of Commons with regard to the Employment Equity Act:
This Bill is about opportunity, because employment
equity is about opportunity, opportunity for Canadians
everywhere to earn a decent living and participate fully in
our society, opportunity for people to be judged by what
they can do. It is a crucial step forward, the first major step
in ensuring equal access to new opportunities for all
Canadians.
The Employment Equity Act passed in 1986 was truly a
positive first step forward. The former minister also stated in her
speech on the Employment Equity Act:
We -

referring to the Progressive Conservative government

2157

-

- want to show all Canadian employers who are not
federally regulated that the underlying principle of
employment equity is a concept for the future.

referring to the federal government -

- intend to prove to employers and to all Canadians that
employment equity is worthwhile.
Honourable senators, the Employment Equity Act passed in
1986, the act which exists in Canada today, has indeed brought to
the attention of employers in our country that employment equity
is worthwhile and that it is clearly a concept for today and the
future. In fact, there is now a greater realization on the part of
public and private sector employers that employment equity
makes good sense. More and more businesses are adopting
employment equity plans and practices.
The former Progressive Conservative govemment also made
employment equity a part of human resources planning. All of
these initiatives were important steps forward, but they were by
no means the final steps to be taken.
The bill before us today, Bill C-64, aims to strengthen the
existing employment equity law. The legislation is a further step
toward ensuring equitable employment opportunities for four
designated groups: women, aboriginal people, persons with
disabilities, and members of visible minorities. The bill will
continue to ensure that these groups have a fair chance in the
work force, and that we have a work force in Canada which
better represents our diverse society.
Honourable senators, I have raised statistics which strongly
support the fact that the four designated groups are sadly
underrepresented in most occupational categories and industrial
sectors across Canada, even though there have been some gains
with the passage of the PC govemment Employment Equity Act
in the 1980s. You only have to read the latest Annual Report on
the Employment Equity Act to understand where the designated
groups fall.
Today, aboriginal people make up 3 per cent of the labour
force in Canada, but only 1 per cent of the work force covered
under this act. Persons with disabilities represent 6.5 per cent of
the labour force, but only 2.5 per cent of the work force covered
under this act. Women and members of visible minorities are
underrepresented in all sectors covered under the act, except in
banking, where there has been improvement over the years.
These are only a few examples which show the significant
underrepresentation of the designated groups in the workforce. In
addition, members of designated groups tend to be concentrated
in lower paying jobs, and the full-time average salary of women
is only 74 per cent that of men. There still remains a great deal of
work to achieve employment equity, but we are, however, on the
right track.
I want to mention briefly some statistics which clearly show
that we are on the right track in advancing the goal of
employment equity. These are statistics which show progress has
been made since the passage of the Employment Equity Act in
1986. The representation of women in the workforce covered
under the act increased from 40 per cent in 1987 to 45 per cent in

1993. This increase over the seven-year period retlects the
signiticant growth of this group's participation in the Canadian
labour force. However, women continue to be overrepresented in
clerical, sales and service jobs. and underrepresented in upper
level management, blue collar and technical jobs - not to
mention the boardrooms of the nation where women comprise a
mere 9 per cent of the directors appointed to company boards in
our country.
Progress for aboriginal people was substantially slower during
the same seven-year period, 1987 to 1993. Their representation
in the work force covered under the act increased by less than
haîf a percentage point from .6 per cent in 1987 to 1.04 per cent
in 1993.
The representation of persons with disabilities increased one
percentage point between 1987 and 1993. and l'or visible
minorities the increase was over 3 per cent. There have been
some gains in the past as a result of our prescrnt Employment
Equity Act. However. speaking as one who has been involved in
disabled persons organizations. I know the special challenge that
this arca presenits aIl conccrned, and there is room for
improvement. that is for certain.
The new employment equity legislation. Bill C-64, will cover
ail employers already under the presenit act. This category
includes approximately 350 private sector employers and Crown
corporations with 100 or more employees representing around
600,000 employees. They operate in federally regulatcd
industries such as banking. transportation and communications.
For the first time. Bill C-64 will place tederal public service
workers under the act. Ail separate employers in the public sector
with 100 or more employees will faîl under the act. This includes
aIl federal departments and agencies. Subject to order of the
Govemuor in Council. the legislation will also cover the Canadian
Armed Forces and members of the former Royal Canadian
Armed Forces.
0 (iSIo)

In the past. public servants were flot previously subject to the
Employment Equity Act. They have. however, been subject to
their own employment equity policies since 1986. and to, the
1992 Public Service Reform Act. These initiatives have led to
some achievements in the public sector.
Bill C-64 does not. however. cover Parliament as an employer.
The House of Commons. the Senate and the Library of
Parliament are not covered under the bill.
Honourable senators, in May of 1992, a special committee
reviewing the Employment Equity Act. chaired by the
Honourable Alan Redway, recommended the following in their
final report:
The scope of' the application of the Employment Equity
Act be broadened to include the fedieral public service: the
RCMP; thc Canadian Armed For-ces; aIl federal agencies.
boards and commissions; and Parliament. specifically the
House of' Commions. the Senate. and the Library of
Parlian1ent.

'.1
[Senai or Johfsli

1 should like clarification from the government as to why it is
that Parliament s flot covered under this bill. If is my feeling that
Parliament. as an employer, should lead by example. Therefore,
consideration should be given to finding a way to include
Parliament as an employer under the bill, perhaps by order of the
Govemnor in Council, as was suggested by the President of the
Treasury Board.
Honourahie senalors. Bill C-64 clarifies employer obligations
to implement employment equity. The legislation sets out core
employment equity obligations, and it establishes the same core
obligations on public and private employers for developing and
implementing employment equity plans and programs. The
legislation provides for monitoring and ensuring compliance of
these provisions and verification for reasonable progress in
achieving a representative workforce.
Another element of this legisiation is that it gives the Canadian
Human Rights Commission enforcement powers. This includes
thin-s such as audits, seizure of files, checking of records and
setting up offices on a firm's premises. In addition, the Canadian
Human Rights Commission will be allowed to issue compliance
orders. If a compliance order is ignored. the Canadian Human
Rights Tribunal. sitting as the Employment Equity Review
Tribunal, could then issue a court order to an employer. Not
responding to that order could result in a contempt of court
prosecution. Bill C-64 imposes a fee. instead of the current
cri minaI proceeding, for non-reporting.
Finally. the legislation will require employers to set
'.numerical" goals for the designated groups. It is this provision
in the bill that has sparked some concernis.
These are some of the general elemnents that make up
Bill C-64, some of which my colleague Senator Losier-Cool
mentioned in her speech on the bill.
Honourable senators, 1 am concernied about the implication
that this legislation will have on the private sector covered under
this legislation. Will this bill create an administrative burden for
businesses'? Some people think so. Some say that the legislation
will add further complications and costs to the conduct of
business in Canada, money which could be better spent to
achieve employment equity through other means such as
education and training programs.
Under the new legislation, businesses will have to spend
money to develop employment equity strategies, and federal
govemrment departments will have to do the same. What will aIl
this cost. and is this the best use of business and government
resources to achieve employment equity'? It would be wise for us
to examine the numbers in order to clarify just what eftèct this
bill will have on the private sector.
Finally, should the authority for monitoring and enforcement
of the Employment Equity Act lie with the Human Rights
Commission'? Some people say that it should not. stating that this
authority should rest with officiais in the Department of Human
Resources Development. and that they will be better able to
handle this responsibility. They are not bogged down with a
heax y casc-Ioad alrcady, as the Human Rights Commission often
is. or so 1 have been told.

SENATE DEBATES

October 3 1, 1995

2159

Another concern of mine is how this legislation will affect the
"merit system." especially in the public sector. As we are al]
aware, the government is going through a period of significant
downsizing. The fear is that downsizing in the federal
government, coupled with new employment equity legislation,
will lead to managers bypassing the merit system when making
decisions to lay off employees. There is a real need to ensure that
this does not happen.

That was the simple request made by the committee, and one
which, seemingly, should have been easy to comply with.
"Easy," however, has not become a word that one would
associate with this committee. The reply came back from the
Department of Justice that the committee could have all the
documents given to Mr. Nixon except the Treasury Board
documents. We could not have them because they had the status
of confidential cabinet documents.

Honourable senators, these are some of the concerns which
have been brought to my attention regarding Bill C-64. Having
mentioned them, let me be clear: There is no doubt in my mind
that employment equity is necessary, and that I support the
general purpose of this bill. I am certain that all senators share in
the goal of employment equity for all Canadians, and I look
forward to a closer examination of this legislation at committee.

Ms Margaret Bloodworth of the Privy Council Office
confirmed this view before the committee when she testified
before the committee. Further, Ms Bloodworth stressed that the
documents had been given to Mr. Nixon inadvertently. In other
words, he got them by mistake. He was not supposed to have
been given any documents that were cabinet documents of the
previous government. Therefore, in essence, the committee was
told that because Mr. Nixon should not have seen the documents,
we could not see them either.

Motion agreed to and bill read second time.
REFERRED TO COMMITTEE

The Hon. the Acting Speaker: Honourable senators, when
shall this bill be read the third time?
On motion of Senator Losier-Cool, bill referred to the
Standing Senate Committee on Social Affairs, Science and
Technology.
PEARSON AIRPORT AGREEMENTS
SECOND REPORT OF SPECIAL
COMMITrEE-DEBATE CONTINUED

On the Order:
Resuming the debate on the consideration of the Second
Report of the Special Committee of the Senate on the
Pearson Airport Agreements, (Address to His Excellency
the Governor General requesting documents), presented in
the Senate on Tuesday, October 17, 1995.-(Honourable
Senator Kirbv).

Hon. Michael Kirby: Honourable senators, I rise today to
continue the debate started in this chamber two weeks ago by my
colleague Senator MacDonald. At that time, Senator MacDonald
moved the adoption of a report by the Special Committee of the
Senate on the Pearson Airport Agreements.
That report asked His Excellency the Governor General to
release to the committee the Treasury Board submissions made in
August of 1993 by the then Minister of Transport, the
Honourable Jean Corbeil. The requested Treasury Board
submissions relate directly to the committee's mandate.
Simply put, the committee needs these documents. This
committee was struck specifically to look into circumstances
surrounding the cancellation of the Pearson airport deal. In
fulfilling that purpose, early in its mandate the committee
undertook to ask for ail documents that were given to Robert
Nixon for use in his preparation of what is known as the Nixon
report. The committee felt. justifiably. that it should have access
to the sane information as Mr. Nixon had when he wrote his
report.

Yet a key focus of the committee's work and its term of
reference is to look at the reasons why Mr. Nixon came to the
conclusions he did. How can we possibly do this if we do not
have access to the same information that Mr. Nixon examined?
Moreover, the importance of these documents is highlighted by
the fact that we know from the sworn testimony of Mr. Stephen
Goudge, Mr. Nixon's legal counsel, that Mr. Nixon relied on the
contents of these Treasury Board documents for some of his
conclusions.

Mr. Goudge, in his appearance before our committee on
September 28, said:
Let me respond this way, senator....Did I derive support
for some of the things in the...Treasury Board submission?
Absolutely "Yes"; absolutely "Yes." I mean I did; there's
just no question about it. When I put forward my
memoranda to Mr. Nixon, parts of it relied heavily on what
was in the Treasury Board submission.
Therefore, it seems to me, honourable senators, that the issue
should be very simple. The committee's mandate is to look into
circumstances surrounding the cancellation of the Pearson
Airport Agreements. The Nixon report was a factor in the
government's decision to cancel the contracts. The documents
were a factor in Mr. Nixon's recommendations to the govemment
and, therefore, the committee should be able to look at the
documents. Yet the committee continues to be denied access to
these documents on the grounds that we should not be given
documents that are cabinet confidences. More important, the
argument is made that giving us access to these cabinet
confidences would set a bad precedent.
I reject this "setting a bad precedent" argument for the
following reasons: First, the committee has not asked to look at
any other cabinet confidences. Indeed, we have unanimously and
in a completely non-partisan fashion supported the principle of
the confidentiality of cabinet confidences. The committee only
wants those documents because Mr. Nixon saw them, and
because they influenced his decision. Had Mr. Nixon never seen
the documents in question, the committee would not now be

asking for them. In fact. bad Mr. Nixon testified that even atter
seeing the documents. he was not intluenced by tbem. I doubt
that the committee would be asking for them today. However,
Mr. Nixon did sec tbem and he was intluenced by them. and that
means that to fulfil its mandate, the committee needs tbem.
Therefore, I continue to support the right of the committee to
have these documents.
1 also reject the argument that giving these documents to the
committee is setting a dangerous or harmful precedent precisely
because setting a precedent means that. if the same situation
arises again. cabinet documents would have to, again be provided
to a parliamentary committee. Let us examine wbat would have
to bappen for an identical situation to arise again. First.
documents containing cabinet confidences would have to be
given inadvertently to someone wbo was not supposed to have
them. Second, that person would have Lo say that he was
significantly intluenced by the documents. Third. a parliamentary
committee would have to be put in place to conduct an inquiry
into the subject-matter of the documents.
I submit, bonourable senators, that the probability of those
tbree things ever happening again simultaneously, of these
precise circumstances being repeated in the future, is extremely
low. Indeed, I submit the probability is virtually zero.
Therefore, 1 reject the argument that giving the committee
these documents creates a barmful precedent. and. I say again. I
support the motion that the committee sbould get these
documents.
On the question of bow to get these documents to the
committee, bowever. I flnd myselt in disagreement witb Senator
MacDonald and the majority on the committee. The process
which the committee is employing to get the documents ks
wrong. in my view and that of my colleagues on the committee
from this side of the chamber. These documents do flot belong te
the current government. These documents are Treasury Board
documents, cabinet confidences of' the administration ot the
Rigbt Honourable Kim Campbell. Therefore, in my vicw. and the
view of my colleagues on the committee, the committee should
be asking Ms Campbell wbetber she is prepared te release them
to, the committee.
If Ms Campbell agrees - and I say parenthetically that I
would expeet ber to because I have been told repeatedly and
firmly by my colleagues on the other side of this chamber wbo
serve on the committee witb me that Ms Campbell bas notbing te
bide in this issue - 1 would strongly hope that the Govemor
General would be advised by bis counsellors that there is no
problem with releasing the documents to the committee.
Surely. honourable senators. the tirst step in the process is te
ask Ms Campbell for the documents. not the current govemment
tbrougb the Governor in Council. Aller ail, these documents are
papers pertaining to ber govemment, flot the current govemment.
Therefore. honourable scnators. the only objection wbicb
Liberal members of' the committee bave on this issue is the
process for ohîaining these documents. net obtaininc the
documents themselves. Fer that reasen wheri the issue was put 10
the coninitice. Liheral niernbers et the coenlnîittee abstainied. ln
our' \ieu il Ibis report is adopied ky this ehanmhe. the onl y\
1Senatoi

Kit hy 1

in which this issue can be resolved at this time is for the
Governor General to respond to the committee's request along
the following fines: The documents sought are of a kind that are
by practice flot produced unless the previous Prime Minister has
given consent. That is inevitably the kind of reply we can expect
from the Governor General because that is the kind of reply
Govemors General have historically given when similar requests
have been made by bouse committees in the past.
0f course, sueh an answer leaves the committee in the position
where its next step must be to ask Ms Campbell wbether she is
willing to authorize the release of the documents. The members
of the committee from our side of the chamber would like to deal
witb this problemt appropriately by following the logical process.
We believe that the committee sbould begin by asking
Ms Campbell whether she is prepared to release the documents.
Accordingly. 1 shall move an amendment to the committee
report that seeks to have the committee adopt the process of first
approacbing Ms Campbell.
In closing. bonourable senators, I reiterate my belief that the
committee bas the right, and indeed the need, to sec these
documents. If Ms Campbell is agreeable to this request. and the
government subsequently says that it is not agreeable to releasing
the documents in question to the committee, I would then be
more than happy to support Senator MacDonald in retumning to
this chamber with a report recommendîng that the request be put
directly to the Govemor General.
MOTION IN AMENDMENT

Hon. Michael Kirby: Honourable senators. I move:
That the Report bc not now adopted. but that il be
aîiieîîdcd by deleting the last paragraph thereof and
replacing il witb the following:
Therefore your Committee recommends that an inquiry
be made of the Right Honourable Kim Campbell as to
whether she is prepared to authorize the release of
Submissions to the Treasury Board. dated August 1993,
that relate to the redevelopment of Pearson Airport.
Hon. Finlay MacDonald: Honourable senators. may I ask
Senator Kirby for sortie clarification?
Senator Kirby: Absolutely.
Senator MacDonald: I do not understand. Since when has a
select commiutee the power to send for papers when the royal
prerogative is involved?
Rule 133 of the Senate reads:
When the royal prerogative is concemed in any account
or paper, an address shail bc presented to the Governor
Genieral praying that the same may be laid before the
Senate.
That ks the appropriate action which the comimittee
recommnends in its report. A select comnlittee -our- conmnttee
bas ne peox er oh enl ,orcenment Unies, siîch power is giýveen te it
Pa1ri a1en1t. \Ve carnet do th is. We arc i n
hy tbis heuC Oefe

October 31, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

violation of rule 133 of the Rules of the Senate of Canada. Does

the honourable senator have any comments to make on that?

Senator Kirby: As honourable senators know, I am by no
means an expert on the rules which govern this place. I do know
that I cleared my amendment with the Table Officer. Thus, I
understand that the amendment is in order.
However, my basic response to the honourable senator's
question is the one that I made in committee. The reality is that
the release of a document belonging to a previous government
has to be approved by the Prime Minister of that previous
government prior to it being released to the committee. All the
members on our side have ever said is, "Let us ask Miss
Campbell if she is prepared to release the document."
What I have said before in this regard is that if Miss Campbell
agrees that the document should be released, I would very
strongly support the honourable senator in his formai request to
the Govemor General for the release of the document. The reality
is that the Governor General will not make a decision on this
issue until Miss Campbell has pronounced her views on it. I feel
quite strongly that what we ought to do is ask Miss Campbell for
her opinion. The documents are her documents. That is the
position we took in committee.
As I explained in my speech and in committee, the only reason
the Liberal members abstained on the motion of the honourable
senator was that we were afraid that, if we voted against it, we
would be accused of trying to hide the documents. I think I made
it abundantly clear today that I am totally on side with Senator
MacDonald and the Conservative members on the committee in
wanting these documents. I think that the process we are going
through is the wrong process.

2161

crystal clear as to what the issue is: The issue is that there are
two clearances required in order to have the documents released.
One is needed from the Prime Minister of the government whose
documents they are, namely, Miss Campbell. As Senator
MacDonald pointed out, the second is needed from the current
cabinet through the Governor General, because an Order in
Council would be required to release the documents.
Boiled down, our difference of opinion is purely: What is the
logical sequence in which to approach this problem? We see no
sense in asking the Govemor General to release documents when
he does not even know if the person who is responsible for those
documents is prepared to release them.
Our view is that the logical and sensible way to approach the
problem is, first, to ask Miss Campbell whether or not she is
prepared to release them. If she says that she is, then we should
proceed to ask the Governor General.
There is no disagreement between us about the need for the
two steps. Our disagreement is with the fact that we seem to be
going at the steps in the reverse order. The only conceivable
reply that could come from the Govemor General at the present
moment is the one which I paraphrased in my notes. It is one
which effectively says that the normal procedure is to first ask
Miss Campbell. I think that is what we ought to do first.
We do not disagree on the need for the two steps. We simply
categorically disagree on approaching the matter in what seems
to he an extremely backward fashion.
Senator MacDonald: Senator Kirby, I know other senators
will want to speak to this item. I want to thank you for the
support you have given to the general principle that we are trying
to establish; one with which we have had some difficulty. I
enjoyed your remarks up to the point of the amendment.

Senator MacDonald: Senator Kirby, your suggestion has the
value of simplicity.

On motion of Senator Kinsella, for Senator Murray, debate
adjourned.

Senator Kirby: I realize that simplicity is a novel approach.
However, we might try it for a change, just because it is a novel
approach.

JOINT PARLIAMENTARY DELEGATION
OFFICIAL VISIT TO BRAZIL-INQUIRY-DEBATE CONCLUDED

Senator MacDonald: We are working under the assumption
that the Governor in Council, the Govemor General, the Prime
Minister and members of the Privy Council Office are ail over 21
and that, presumably, they ail have a high school education.
Senator Kirby: Are you suggesting that Miss Campbell does
not?
Senator MacDonald: They now have the power to respond to
our address. If that address suggests that they are willing to allow
the documents to be disclosed on the advice of the previous
administration, then we will take it from there. However, we will
then have another situation on our hands: that will be whether or
not the previous Prime Minister will invoke the tradition of not
disclosing documents of a previous administration.
Senator Kirby: Senator MacDonald, I understand your point
of view. For the benefit of other senators. I should like to be

On the Order:
Resuming the debate on the inquiry of Hon. H. A. Oison
calling the attention of the Senate to the official visit to
Brazil of the Joint Parliamentary Delegation of the Senate
and the House of Commons from April 15 to 21, 1995.
Hon. Finlay MacDonald: Honourable senators, if no other
senator wishes to speak on this item, I would ask that the order
be discharged.
The Hon. the Acting Speaker: Is it agreed, honourable
senators?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Debate concluded.

INTER-PARLIAMENTARY UNION
SPECIAL SESSION OF INTER-PARLIAMENTARY COUNCIL
ON FIFTIETH ANNIVERSARY OF CREATION
OF UNITED NATIONS-INQUIRY

Hon. Peter Bosa rose pursuant to notice of Tuesday,
October 3, 1995:
That he will cal] the attention of the Senate to the Special
Session of the Inter-Parliamentary Council, on the occasion
of the 50th anniversary of the creation of the United
Nations, held in New York City from August 30th to
September lst, 1995.
He said: Honourable senators, it is my privilege to speak to a
report of the Special Session of the Inter-Parliamentary Council
held in New York from August 30 to September 1.
Some 253 parliamentarians from 74 countries participated in
this special event, which was held to mark the occasion of the
fiftieth anniversary of the creation of the United Nations. My
distinguished colleague Senator Andreychuk and I attended this
conference, together with two members of the House of
Commons, Mrs. Colleen Baumier and Mr. Maurice Dumas.
At the outset. I would like to express our thanks and
appreciation to the officials from the Department of Foreign
Affairs and from International Trade Canada. the Canadian
International Development Agency and the Department of
National Defence, who briefed our delegation prior to our
departure. I would also pay tribute to the permanent head of the
Canadian mission to the United Nations, Mr. Robert Fowler, and
his colleagues for their briefing and assistance during the
conference.
"The parliamentary vision for international cooperation into
the 21st century" was the general theme for our meeting, which
was held in the impressive General Assembly Hall. Our
deliberations were divided into two subthemes: First, there was
an agenda for democracy, peace and sustainable development;
second, there was reinforcing and democratizing the structures
for international cooperation.
Much of the work of the Canadian IPU Group focused on the
second topic and. in particular. on the form of the Security
Council. Our group was one of 22 which had submitted a
memorandum entitled, "Reviewing and Strengthening the United
Nations Security Council."
a (155(

As you are aware. honourable senators. the Security Council
has five permanent members, each with a veto, and
10 non-permanent members, five of whom are elected each year
for a two-year term.
In our document, we pointed out that reform was pressing for
two reasons: First. the permanent membership of the Security
Council is less reflective of the reality of global power: and.
second, many question its credibility as an impartial inter\ enor in
situations that threaten conimon security because of the

disproportionate influence within it of northern and especially
North Atlantic states.
Honourable senators. our memorandum also referred to the
work of our joint parliamentary committee on the foreign policy
review, especially its comments on supporting an increase in the
number of members of the council and greater transparency in its
deliberations.
As the first speaker of the Canadian delegation, I made a
strong plea for reform of the Security Council. I should like to
mention some of the salient points in my remarks. Our first
priority must be to improve the effectiveness and credibility of
the council. Enhancing the council's transparency and procedures
for consulting with troop-contributing nations would help
achieve this goal. Recent UN efforts to change the process of
consultation within non-council members and troop-contributing
nations should be formalized and institutionalized.
In looking at increasing the size of the council, I mentioned
two main requirements for membership: one, level of
commitment and support of UN activities; and, two, geographic
balance.
I believe that the council should include those countries
prepared and able to contribute to emergency situations. It seems
only fair and reasonable that countries who support and
participate in peacekeeping operations ought to be involved in
the decisions affecting their troops. Contributions to international
security and other charter ideals should be a crucial factor in
membership.
Honourable senators, numerous proposals have heen put
forward during the past year about how the membership of the
council might be increased. I believe that the combination of
elements from different proposals may offer the best solution.
One interesting approach - and here I spoke in my personal
capacity - is the idea of adding up to 10 rotating,
non-permanent seats to be shared for two-year periods. Permit
me to explain this proposal. We could achieve better geographic
balance by allocating one seat to Africa, one to Latin America
and one to Asia with the membership rotating among the
countries within these regions. The remaining seven seats will be
shared by countries which would best qualify under Article 23.
The criteria for demonstrated commitment to the goals of the
United Nations might include: contributions to peacekeeping
operations; participation in voluntary funds for humanitarian
activities; economic development and protection of human
rights; and timely and full payments of UN assessments. I
believe that this approach should help the council by harnessing
the energies and capacities of a wider group of states, by
allowing a broader range of representation, and by including
those countries most supportive of its activities.
Although the response to our intervention was reasonably
positive. the Final Declaration. which must be adopted by
consensus, took a cautious approach to the issue of reform of the
Security Council. It acknowledged that "the Security Council
needs reform to make it more representative and democratic
while at the same time sustaining its authority and effectiveness.
Il also stated that "its membership should be increased.

October 31, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

However, the drafting committee could flot agree on a formula
for how such reform might be achieved, a division which 1
believe reflects the continuing differences of opinion among
many members of the United Nations. The concluding document
also mentioned the need for greater transparency, noting that
"Mechanisms should be found to render the work of the Council
more transparent."
Honourable senators, the Inter-Parliamentary Union is the
international organization which brings together the
representatives of the parliaments of sovereign states. I think it is
particularly fitting that this organization, which has been
described as "the parliamentarians' UN," should celebrate this
fiftieth anniversary by examining how to reinvigorate the United
Nations systemn as weII as ways to increase parliamentary
involvement at both the national and international level. Let us

2163

pledge our support for strengthening links between the United
Nations and the Inter- Parli amentary Union.
The Hon. the Acting Speaker: Honourable senators, if no
other senator wishes to speak, this inquiry is considered dehated.
PRIVILEGE
Hon. Anne C. Cools: Honourable senators, it had been my
intention to raise a question of privilege. It had been my
expectation that the Speaker, Senator Molgat, would be in the
Chair. If senators are in agreement, I shall wait until Senator
Moigat is back in the Chair to raise my question of privilege.
The Senate adjoumned until Wednesday, November 1, 1995, at
1:30 p.m.

TUE SENATE
Wednesday, November 1, 1995

The Senate met at 1:30 p.n., Senator Fymard G. Corbin,
Acting Speaker. in the Chair.
Prayers.

SENATORS' STATEMENTS
NOVA SCOTIA
CONGRATULATIONS TO DR. JOHN HAMM ON ELECTION
AS LEADER OF- PROVINC.IAL PROG>RESSIVE CONSERVATIVE PARTY

Hon. J. Michael Forrestali: Honourable senators. 1 did not
rise yesterday because the momentum and the rejoicing of the
day belonged to those who had worked so very hard on the
campaign in Quebec. They deserved their day in the sun. They
deserve our thanks and appreciation. 1. too, would join with the
remarks made yesterday in praise of those who worked so hard.
and 1 say that without demeaning in any way the legitimate
aspirations of the Quebec people.
Had I risen yesterday. it would have been to extend
congratulations to the new leader of the Progressive Conservative
Party in Nova Scotia. Dr. John Hammi. We have had a number of
good party leaders over the years. Names such as Stanficld.
Buchanan, Cameron, Donahoe, and Angus L. Macdonald come
to mind. 1 arn presently reading The Man fromi Haliax: Sir Johni
Thomnpson and efljoying it immensely. Nova Scotia does indeed
produce great leaders.
Our party is the only political party in Nova Scotia that was
successful, on the very first try. in opening up the phone fines to
ensure that al] members had their say on who should lead our
party. This vote does îlot have to be rescheduled. In contrast to
recent performances by the present Premier of Nova Scotia, John
Savage. we released and announced proudly the results of the
vote.
No comparisons need be made. honourable senators. between
Dr. Hamm and Dr. Savage. Indeed. none could be made.
Dr. Hamm's outstanding capacity to understand and to deal with
people needs no elaboration. Dr. Hamm believes in consulting
with the people and then - and only then - prescribing the
cure. With Dr. Savage. it happens the other way around.
As Dr. Hamni presented a five-point plan to the thousands of'
Tories who gathered in Halifax and at other gathering points
throughout the province, he s ery aptly dernonstrated his
pieparedness and bis eagerness to Let down to ssork~ alongside
soinevvhat helea guered
Nosva Scotians to the hettermient ol o1_1r
part ol Canada hy the sea. 1 knosx that Dr. Hain '.sill do wel I.

0

(13o

1 extend as well my congratulations to Mr. Jim White and
Mr. Michael MacDonald, who ran very able campaigns. ht was
from Michael MacDonald that 1 learned that kilts, in some form,
have been around forever. However, they did flot corne into
fashion until many centuries after the Irish had been proudly
wearing them.

My colleague Senator Comeau has stated that those willing to
answer the caîl of public duty are to be congratulated, revered
and honoured. It is a difficuli task. 1 invite my colleagues to join
me in expressing to this new leader in our political structure in
Canada our best wishes and good health in the years that lie
ahead.

NATIONAL UNITY
RESULI

OF

QUEBEC REFERENDUM

Hon. L. Norbert Thériault: Honourable senators. 1 should
have made this statement yesterday. 1 should prohably speak iii
French. but 1 want ail of my colleagues to understand.
For the past 10 days. 1 have lived through a new experience. 1
was in Quebec for a few of those days. and on Monday night 1
watched the results of the retèrendum in Montreal. For the first
hour and a haîf of the broadcast on the results, 1 had to either sit
down or have someone help me stand up.
Honourable senators. 1 wish to join with those who have
commented on the Quebec referendum. 1 especially want to join
in congratulating Jean Charest for bis tremendous passion and his
demonstration of love for Canada and Quebec. His contribution
will neyer be forgotten.

Hon. Senators: Hear, hear!
Senator Thériault: Specifically. to my English-speaking
colleagues, Canadians in every province and every corner of the
country have shown their affection, tolerance and generosity in
the last week of the campaign, especially last Friday in Montreal.
As Senator Perrault stated yesterday, we were saved t'rom an
execution. merely saved.
Today, I appeal to aIl honourable senators and to the people ot
Canada to react in the next few weeks as they would have
reacted had the results been minus one vote for Canada. It is that
close. 1 do flot know what the Prime Minister will say or do. 1
hope that whatever it is. it will have the cooperation of aIl
political parties - this goes beyond political partisanship - and
be sufficient to show Quebecers that we really want theni to be
part of' Canada. I speak as a francophone. 1 want to be part of'
Quebec. not physically. perhaps. but in mvy heart. and 1 arn sure
Fr-eneh-speaiking'L Canadians liv ing outside of Quebee ledl the
sanie.

SENATE DEBATES

November 1, 1995

Quebec is important. Canada without Quebec is not my
Canada. The Atlantic provinces without Quebec - I hate to
think about that prospect. Therefore, in the next few days and
weeks, please show your generosity. Support the political
leaders. If something is to happen, it must be done collectively
by the political leaders of this country, wherever they may be.
There are people in Canada, as there are people in Quebec,
who are prepared to say "let them go." Please resist that
temptation. Be generous in your hearts, souls and minds. Let all
of us hope together that we, as Canadians, can prove and show to
Quebec that Canada depends on them to a large degree, and that
they are part of us and we are part of them.
Hon. Senators: Hear, hear!

CITY OF WINNIPEG
TRIBUTE TO SUSAN THOMPSON ON RE-ELECTION AS MAYOR

Hon. Terry Stratton: Honourable senators, I wish to change
the topic slightly.
I rise today to pay tribute to Susan Thompson on her election
to a second term as Mayor of the City of Winnipeg.
Ms Thompson was first elected in 1992 on a mandate for change
and a freeze on taxes. The status quo fought tooth and nail
against change - any change. They had had their way for a long
time. However, slowly, this neophyte mayor, without any prior
political experience, has effected change.
On October 25, 1995, Ms Thompson was elected again on a
mandate of change and again on a mandate to hold tax increases
to an absolute minimum if a freeze was not acceptable. The
citizens of Winnipeg realized that change was required if the city
was to move forward into the next century in a cost competitive
position. However, more importantly, she imparted a positive
vision of the future. Winnipeg will host the Winter Cities
Conference in 1996. Winnipeg will host the Pan-American
Games in 1999. Winnipeg strives for the type of economic
growth that brings jobs. In other words, she imparted a positive,
upbeat vision of the future.
For this, I thank her. I can only hope that the leaders of this
country can impart a similar vision for Canadians, who have just
stated, quite clearly, that this is their vision; positive, upbeat,
loving and caring for their country, their Canada.
HARBOURFRONT LITERARY FESTIVAL OF AUTHORS
Hon. Janis Johnson: Honourable senators, I wish to draw
your attention to the annual Harbourfront Literary Festival of
Authors. It was held this year from October 1l to 21. I rise today
to comment on this festival due to my deep interest in Canada's
cultural affairs and as a member of the Senate Transport and
Communications Committee. In its sixteenth year, the festival
enjoys an elevated status in the literary world. Authors and their
agents and editors are honoured to attend.

2165

As a non-literary guest of this year's festival. I want to
commend the festival committee, staff and the volunteers for
bringing 65 of the world's finest poets, novelists. biographers,
playwrights and children's authors to Toronto for meetings and
interviews. The roster was impressive; from our own Mordechai
Richler, Pierre Burton and Margaret Atwood, to Australia's
Thomas Keneally, America's Richard Ford, Chile's Ariel
Dorfman, England's Margaret Drabble, James MacKay; Dennis
Brutus from South Africa. Orhan Pamuk from Turkey, Joanna
Trollope, and Yevgeny Yevtushenko from Russia, to name but a
few.
The attendance was excellent, the writers accessible. I
personally witnessed my friend, Thomas Keneally, accept the
memoirs of an elderly Jewish man who wanted his story told by
talk books.
People attended in large numbers, bought books and renewed
their excitement about literature and the written word, whether it
was Canadian literature or literature from other parts of the
world.
Mr. Greg Gatenby, the artistic director and powerhouse behind
the festival, should be commended for his tremendous vision, his
tireless efforts and his commitment to making the Harbourfront
Literary Festival a world-class affair. I should add here that the
Harbourfront continues to sponsor weekly readings throughout
the year that are open to the general public. I urge honourable
senators to attend this event next year or during the year and see
why Canada is becoming world renowned in the arts and, in this
case, in the world of words, of books which tell the stories that
give nations their written heritage, history and soul. We certainly
need more of this at this time in our country's history.
FIREARMS BILL
Hon. Ron Ghitter: Honourable senators, it is with pleasure
that I extend an invitation to all of you to join the senators who
will be travelling to the west and the Yukon in order to receive
input relative to Bill C-68.
We have received numerous requests from Western Canada,
the Yukon and the territories from people who have not been able
to come before either the House committee or our committee to
express their views. Groups of senators have decided that we will
be travelling to several areas, and I wish to extend an invitation
to all honourable senators to join us. A group of us will be in the
Province of Saskatchewan on Monday, November 6 and 7, in
Regina and Saskatoon; in different locations in the Province of
Manitoba on November 6, 7, 8 and 9; in Vancouver, British
Columbia on November 9 as well, and in Kamloops on
November 10; in Whitehorse, Yukon, on November 12; in
Edmonton on November 14; and on Wednesday, November 15,
we will be in Calgary.
I might add that the witness lists are full and overflowing with
various groups and individuals who wish to come and express
their points of view. You are also most welcome to come and join
us and take the opportunity to hear Canadians who have not had
the opportunity to cone to Ottawa to express their points of view.

NATIONAL UNITY
REFLECTIONS ON REFERENDUMS AND PROMISES

Hon. Richard J. Doyle: Honourable senaters. Murray
McLaughlin is the ranking troubadour of the far west - the far
west cf' the province cf Ontario, that is. In The Former's Son g.
Murray McLaughlin cornes right eut and says: -Things just ain't
what they used te be." It should net take a carload cf pundits
frorn the CBC, the Citizen. Thîe Globe aund Mail and La Pi-esse te
define and refine the fine cf such a superbly lyrical apherism.
Only twe days after the referendum. which denied the Parti
Québécois' bid for severeignty. things. surely, just ain't what
they used te be.
Befere we move on, however, it might be wise te make a fintie
list of the way things used te be. before we forget some cf the
mistakes and stupidities that got us where we are 15 years after
the histeric first vote on a process of separatien. We might coe
up wilh rules like these fer future campaigns. First. den't fil] the
air with promises you have ne intention cf keeping. Mr. Trudeau
did that in his impassioned fight with René Lévesque, and
followed it by slarnming the deer on every formula for his hoe
province beyend those cf his ewn invention.
Rule two: Den't court defeat cf sensible and welI-intentioned
attempts te bridge deep divisions with reasonable accords by
inviting dedicated critics te Iaunch their destructive carnpaigns in
these very chambers. The former prime minister came here "'to
speak for the record- as he described it. The record shows this:
1 am tenified cf Meech Lake. 1 think it is a Rubicon. Once
you have crossed it. you cannot go back. You march on te
Rome.
Rule three: Make careful notes cf the difterences in what
people say from time te time, from issue te issue. and frem
opportunity te opportunity. Note hew sovereigntists, fer instance.
right up te last Monday. cited the defeat cf the Meech Lake
Accord as a tragic put-dewn and denial cf their province. Then
recaîl how severeigntists - they were called separatists 15 years
ago -oppesed the Meech Lake accord when the House et
Commons. the Senate and aIl but two cf Canada's legislatures
advocated affirmation cf its careful purpese.
Rule four: Beware cf those who would thwart the nation's best
intentions just te serve their own ambitions. Net aIl cf these
self-servers have been members cf gevernrents, although it is
fashionable te blarne them. Consider the posturing in the media.
in academe and in the union hall. Be careful lest we are left in
our legislatures with polîsters, expediters and smug mandarins in
place cf these who should gevern.
Rule five: These cf us who believe that true federalism.
sensibly balanced by progressive regionalists. will best serve
Canada must net permit the deomsayers te discourage us. There
is a busy market fer colourful pessimism today. We sheuld
remember that. early on in this campaign. Mr. Parizeau speke cf
50 plus ene as ail the hacking his followers needed te take over.
()ur jar is mere than hall' full. Jean Charest spoke Tiiesday of' a
tomorrew - and Ihat
partncrship of optirnisni that could serve uIS

could be served itself by the willingness cf the people of Canada
te hecorne invelved when they see that they are wanted - yea.
needed - te hold the country together.
Armed with rules based on recollection. and tilled with hope
aise based on recollection. we are in good shape te start the
journey.

Hon. Senators: Hear. hear!

ROUTINE PROCEEDINGS
ELECTORAL BOUNDARIES
READJUSTMENT BILL, 1995
NOTICE 0F MOTION T'O INSTRUCT
COMMITVEE TO TABLE FINAL REPORT

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourahie senators, pursuant te rule 58( 1)(fj, 1 give notice that
on Thursday, November 2, 1995, 1 wilI move:
That it be an instruction cf this House to the Standing
Senate Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs that
ne later than Wednesday. November 22, 1995. it present its
final report te the Senate on the Message from the House cf
Commons. dated June 20, 1995, and on the motion cf the
Honourable Senator Graharn dated June 28. 1995. regarding
Bill C-69, An Act te provide for the establishment of
electoral boundaries commissions and the readjustment of
electoral boundaries.

CANADIAN NATO PARLIAMENTARY ASSOCIATION
NORTII ATLANTIC ASSEMBLY-REPORI'
0F CANADIAN DELEGATION TABLED

Hon. Bill Rompkey: Honourable senaters, 1 have the honour
te table the ninth report of the Canadian Delegation cf the
Canadian NATO Parliamentary Association on the North
Atlantic Assembly Seminar cf the Werking Group on Northern
Securîty Issues. which was held in Copenhagen. on
September 25-26. 1995.

NATIONAL UNITY
RESULT0F QUEBEC REFERENDUM-NOTICE

0F INOUIRY

Hon. Donald H. Oliver: Honourable senators. 1 give notice
that on Tuesday. November 7, 1995. 1 will cal! the attention of
the Senate to the resuits cf' the referendum et October 30. 1995,
iii Quehec.

November

1, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

[Translation]

QUESTION PERIOD

2167

Since the present government was elected, we have not heard a
thing. The country has been brought to the brink. Could the
minister inform the Senate that the government has finally
realized there is a problem?
[English]

CANADIAN RADIO-TELEVISION AND
TELECOMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
INCREASE IN LOCAL TELEPHONE RATES-GOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. Marcel Prud'homme: Honourable senators, yesterday
the CRTC announced - and I already see some signs of relief
that my question does not concem the referendum, for the time
being - that there would be an increase in monthly rates for
local calls. As you know, the decision had been made.
Cabinet had decided to ask the CRTC, as it is entitled to do by
law, that the decision be reconsidered. We know who is going to
pay for this decision: the little guy, the less well-off, people for
whom the telephone is often their only means of entertainment.
These are the arguments I used when I was sitting in the other
place. The CRTC's decision is contrary to what the government
really wants to do.
Does the minister intend to ask the govemment to reject this
latest decision by the CRTC?
[English]

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, the question will undoubtedly be discussed
by the government. The results of that discussion will be known
when a decision is made.
[Translation]

NATIONAL UNITY
QUEBEC SITUATION FOLLOWING REFERENDUMGOVERNMENT POLICY

Hon. Jean-Claude Rivest: Honourable senators, my question
concerns the post-referendum period. Yesterday, the Prime
Minister of Canada called a cabinet meeting to discuss the
consequences of or the Canadian government's reaction to the
referendum in Quebec. I imagine we can expect another
referendum to be held in Quebec, almost certainly as soon as
next year.
Is the minister in a position to inform the Senate of certain
elements of the policy that the Canadian govemment is about to
adopt, or has already adopted, to deal with Quebec and the other
regions in Canada, and the fact that the referendum vote was
extremely close and has brought the country to the brink?
Does the Canadian government finally intend to adopt a policy
on the Quebec situation - a policy along the same lines or not,
but in any case a policy - as the Prime Minister at the time,
Mr. Brian Mulroney. did. and who acted very responsibly in this
respect?

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, a number of questions were contained in
my honourable friend's comments.
Clearly, the Government of Canada - and Canadians
generally - have been galvanized in recent weeks by the
situation in Quebec. Indeed, they have responded with their
hearts, their minds and their passions in conveying messages to
Quebec which would indicate the depth of our feeling that our
Canada is incomplete, is unrecognizable, without the Province of
Quebec. That is fundamental.
My friend raises the question of another referendum. That is,
of course, a judgment which will be made in another place; not
on Parliament Hill, and certainly not by the Canadian
government. I believe it would be the hope of us all that such a
situation would not occur, but that is not for ourjudgment; that is
not our decision to make.
The Prime Minister and those who spoke so eloquently during
the referendum - Mr. Charest, Mr. Johnson, Madam Robillard
and others - made it clear that tomorrow's agenda for Canada
will be one of change; change that will respond to concerns in
Quebec and change that will respond to concerns across Canada,
because many of the concerns are shared.
The Prime Minister spoke on three occasions of special
commitments to the Province of Quebec. He did so most recently
on the night of the referendum. He will find a way to fulfil those
commitments in the period immediately ahead.
ATLANTIC CANADA OPPORTUNITIES AGENCY
CORNWALLIS PARK DEVELOPMENT AGENCYALLEGATIONS OF MISMANAGEMENT-STOPPAGE OF
FUNDS-GOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. Gerald J. Comeau: Honourable senators, my question is
for the Leader of the Government in the Senate and concerns
allegations of financial and administrative mismanagement at the
Cornwallis Park Development Agency in Nova Scotia. Senator
Forrestall and I will be pursuing this matter over the coming
sessions. Senator Forrestall has had to leave the chamber for
another engagement, but I have a couple of questions I should
like to ask.
Can the minister confirm that there will be no further
disbursement of funds from ACOA to that agency úntil the
allegations and the issues have been resolved?
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, it is my understanding, from questions I
have asked of the ministry, that the concerns are being looked
into and the funding has been halted or is in abeyance until those
issues are resolved. When they are resolved. funding will be
restored.

CORNWALLIS PARK DEVELOPMENT AGENCY CIRCUMSTANCES
SURROUNDINO APPOINTMENT 0F BOARD 0F
DI RECTO RS-GOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. Gerald J. Comeau: Honourable senators. perhaps the
minister is aware that the all-party Cornwallis Committee.
voluntary and unpaid. which was in place for a number of years
prior to the change of government, was disbanded by her
colleague David Dingwall and replaced by a board of directors.
Can the Leader of the Government tell us who appointed the
members of this newly created board? Perhaps she could also tell
us whether there is any truth to the allegation that the local
member of Parliament. Harry Verran. chose those people himself.

And on the motion in amendment of the Honourable
Senator Kirhy. scconded by the Honourable Senator Corbin,
That the Report be flot now adopted but that it bc
amended by deleting the last paragraph thereot' and
replacing it with the following:
Therefore your Committee recommends that an inquiry
bc madc of the Right Honourable Kim Campbell as to
whether she is prepared 10 authorize the release of
Submissions t0 the Treasury Board, dated August 1993,
that relate 10 the redevelopment of Pearson
Airport.-(Hotioura-bleSenator Muirrcuv PC.)

Hon. Lowell Murray: Honourable senators. I ask that this

0 (141o)I

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, 1 arn aware that the Cornwallis Park
Development Agency is a flot-for-profit organization which is
guided by a board of directors. However. I ar nfot aware of the
process for the appointment of members to that board, elîher at
present or in the past.

CANADA POST CORPORATION
DELAY IN DELIVERY 0F MAIL

GOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. Edward M. Lawson: Honourable senators. my question
is directed t0 thc Leader of the Govemment in the Senate.
On approximately October 25, 1995. 1 received six or eight
pieces of mail dated April 16. 18 and 19, 1993, from British
Columbia. other places in Canada and the United States. They
were sent on the dates mentioned, yet surfaced in my mailbox
only last week.

order stand, with the added comment that if any other honourable
senator wishes 10 intervene. they should feel free to do so today
or on any other day during which this order stands in my name. 1
will be ready 10 speak to the matter in due course.

ONTARIO COURT GENERAL, DIVISION
MOTION TO STRIKE SPECIAI, COMMITTEE TO EXAMINE
AND REPORT UPON TIIE CONDUCT AND BEI-IAVIOUR
0F CERTAIN OFFICERS AND JUSTICES-DEBATE ADJOURNED

The Senate proceeded to consideration of the motion of the
Honourable Senator Cools. seconded by the Honourable Senator
Carstairs:
That a Special Comimittee of the Senate he constituted Io
examine and report upon the conduct and hehaviour of
certain justices and barristers oU the Ontario Court o! Justice
(General Division). raised by the Honourable Senator Cools
in ber speeches on Parliamentary Privilege in the Senate iii
terms of:

Would the Leader of the Government determine from the
minister responsible for Canada Post the reason that such an
event could take place'? Arn 1 Iikely to be charged storage for the
two and a haîf years that these letters languished in the Canada
Post system?

(i) failing to take judicial notice of the Law of
Parliamentary Privilege, the Constitution of' Canada, and
the laws of Canada pertaining t0 the Senate,

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):

(ii) failing 10 uphold and enforce the said laws, and the
immunities and privileges of the Senate;

Honourable senators, it must have been a very slow horse.

Obviously. I have no personal or direct knowledge of this malter.

ORDERS 0F THE DAY
PEARSON AIRPORT AGREEMENTS
SECOND REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMIlTEF

ORDER STANDS

On the Order:
Resuming the debate o11 the consideration of' thc Second
Report of' the Special Comrnitee of' the Senate on the
Pearson Airport Agreemnents. (Address Io His Excellency
the Governor General recluesting documents). presentecl iii
the Senate on Tuesday. ()ctober 17. 1995.

(iii) interfering with and frustrating the enjoyment and
exercise of the said laws. immunities. and privileges;
(iv) inducing failure to observe and comply with the
said laws. immunities. and privileges:
(y) impeaching proceedings in Parliament;

(vi) threatening sanctions on the vindication of the said
laws. immunities. and privileges;
(vii) their conduet and behaviour generally relatin g to
the Law of' Parlianmentary Privilege. the Constitution ofCianada, the independence of' the judiciary. constitutional
coinnt. thie dignit\ of the Senate. and the duce
administration oU lustice:

November 1, 1995

November1,
1995SENATE
DEBATES

That the Committee be further empowered to consider
and report upon related matters which may concern the
privileges of the Senate;
That the committee have power to send for persons,
papers and records, to examine witnesses, to report from
time to time and to print such papers and evidence from day
to day as may be ordered by the committee;
That the committee be composed of seven members. four
of whom shall constitute a quorum; and
That the Committee of Selection be instructed to decide
and report upon the membership of the Special
Committee.-HonourableSenator Cools)

Hon. Anne C. Cools: Honourable senators, 1 nise to speak to
this motion, which has been on the Order Paper now for more
than a year.
Honourable senators, parliamentary privilege is a matter of
high constitutional importance, and one that rests at the heart of
our systemn of government. The moral and political responsibility
to uphold and defend parliamentary privilege is a moral
imperative which is recited in the Rules of the Senate.
Honourable senators, my purpose today is to raise matters of
high constitutional principle which I believe are cause for action
by the Senate. At stake are the fundamental principles of a
parliamentarian's ability to attend to the business of a free
Parliament without let, hindrance, interference or threat, as is
guaranteed by the Lex et consuetudo Parliamenti.At stake also is
the twin fundamental principle that the courts of justice have a
duty to enforce the law of privilege, and a duty to obey the laws
of Canada and to proceed as the law and Constitution direct.
The practice of lawlessness by judges, hamrsters or courts of
justice is a matter for parliamentary intervention, particularly
when such individuals express by their behaviour, actions and
words, profound and utter contempt for Parliament.
1 propose that a special senate committee be constituted to
afford the persons involved full and sufficient opportunity to
meet my accusations in a full and fair inquiry of the Senate; to
satisfy the notions of naturai justice and judicial independence;
and to examine the evidence supporting my accusations and
assertions of contempt of Parliament, breach of parliamnentary
privilege and conduct prejudicial to the constitutional order.
My accusations are directed against Mr. Justice Theodore
Matlow of the Ontario Court, General Division, and barristers
Anne Moiloy, Bruce Drake, Eva Frank and Robin Basu. The
complaints against Anne MoIloy touch two other judges, Judge
Lee Ferrier and Justice Douglas Lissaman.

2169
26

and:
... al and singular the Rights and Liberties asserted and
claimed.. .are the true, ancient, and indubitable Rights and
Liberties of the People ...and so shall be esteemed, allowed,
adjudged, deemed, and taken to be ...and...shall ...remain, and
be the Law. ... ever;
for
The Bill of Rights, 1688, is the Iaw of Canada by reception
through the BNA Act, 1867, section 18. The courts are bound, at
their own initiative and unprompted by Parliament, to protect,
uphold and enforce the law of privilege in aIl judicial
proceedings, independent of any parliamentary action to exercise
its own inquisitorial, punitive or judicial powers.
The most eminent modem jurist, Lord Alfred Denning, in
1958, asserted this view that the Bill of Rights, 1688, is an
instruction to the courts, saying:
I regard those words as a clear direction to the courts of
law.
and:
...the Bill of Rights is directed to the courts of Iaw. It directs
them not to question proceedings in Parliament.
In other words, the courts of iaw must proceed in accordance
with the direction of the law.
The British North America Act, section 18, and the Parliament
of Canada Act, sections 4 and 5, direct the courts to take judicial
notice of Parliament's privileges as part of the general and public
law of Canada, and to esteem and adjudge accordingly. Section 5
of the Parliament of Canada Act states:
The privileges, immunities and powers held, enjoyed and
exercised in accordance with section 4 are part of the
general and public law of Canada and it is not necessary to
plead themn but they shall, in ail courts in Canada, and by
and before ail judges, be taken notice of judicially.
Honourable senators, some judges and lawyers persist in
provoking and testing the powers and the strength of nerves of
Parliament. I should like to cite two recent precedents of
Parliament's assertion of its own privileges. The first is from our
own House of Commons and the then Speaker, the Honourable
John Fraser, and concerns the use of judicial and legal pressure
against members of Parliament in the exercise of their
parliamentary privileges. On May 19, 1989, the Honourable John
Fraser urged that Parliament not tolerate such activity.
Concemning what he described as:
..undue pressure.. .brought to bear upon the Member for the
purpose of questioning his right to dlaim parliamentary
immunity...

Honourable senators, the constitutional struggles of the
seventeenth century culminated in the statutory recognition of
Parliament's privileges, rights and immunities in the Bill of
Rights. 1688. That great statute settled the existence and status of
parliamentary privilege for ail time, stating:

he said that such actions are:

...Proceedings in Parliament. ought not to be impeached or
questioned in any Court or Place out of Parliament.

.. total
in
disregard
parliamentary law...

of.. .established

and. ...verifiable

The Speaker of the House of Commons. Mr. Fraser. was clear
and unequivocal. From the Chair, he said:
Let me state for the record that the right of a Member ot
Parliament to refuse to attend court as a witness during a
parliamentary session ... is an undoubted and inalienable
right...
and:
...I1
take a serious view of the action of a member of the legal
profession in questioning the right of a Member of
Parliament to dlaim immunity from appearing as a witness
and alleging that a court. and not Parliament, had the power
to make a determination in such a case.
Honourable senators. the second precedent is Australian. and
relates to events surrounding two 1984 Senate comimittee
inquiries into the activities of a justice of the High Court of
Australia. During judicial proceedings relating to these inquiries
and cognate matters. two other justices. Justice Cantor and
Justice Hunt, repudiated and denied the Bill of Rigbts, 1688, and
denied the Senate's privileges. The Australian Senate. led by the
Senate President Senator Douglas McClelland, took conclusive
action and introduced a bill entitled the Parliamentary Privileges
Bill to defeat the judgments. rulings, reasoning, and actions of
those judges. On tabling tbe legislation on October 7, 1986, the
president said:
It is an unprecedented step for a Presiding Officer of a
House of the Parliament to introduce a Bill...
He said. however. tbat his Parliamentary Privileges Bill declaring
the powers and privileges of Parliament was inecessary -to avoid
the consequences" of the court judgments.
0

(14211)

The Australian Senate was unequivocal in its statutory
initiative. The bill and its accompanying resolutions addressed
some of the very issues of breach of parliamentary privilege that
1 have raised. This bill upheld the privilege of a member's right
niot to attend any court or tribunal on any day that the member's
house or committee is sitting. It declared the matters to be treated
as contempts of Parliament, including the service of legal process
in the precincts of Parliament. disobedience of orders of the
Senate, obstruction of orders of the Senate. molestation of
senators, improper influence of senators, and interference with
the Senate, stating:
A person shaîl not ... interfere with the free exercise ... or..
the free performance by a Senator of the Senator's duties as
a Senator.
and:
A person shaîl not. by ... intimidation, force or threat ot any
kind ... induce a Senator to be absent from the Senate...
Honourable senators. I believe the law oh' parliamientary
privilege has heen hreached recently iii Canada. The breaches

[ Senator Cool, 1

have manifested themselves by. first, the instituting of court
proceedings f'or the purpose of adjudication on parliamentary
privilege and the actual adjudication of sanie, second, the threat
of' an exercise of judicial sanction and censure in the exercise of'
a senator's privilege: third. the compulsion by the Ontario Court
(General Division). by court orders, of a senator's attendance in
court on Senate sitting days, including during actual Senate
sittings; and fourth. the compulsion by the Ontario Court
(General Division). by court orders, of service of court
documents and legal processes requiring personal service in the
precincts of Parliament without leave of the Speaker of the
Senate of Canada.
Honourable senators. 1 assert that a justice of the Ontario
Court (General Division), Mr. Justice Matlow, employed his
judicial office and powers to offend Parliament. He used his
judicial station. judicial office. and judicial authority to commit
acts which are in contempt of Parliament. He ruled to proceed on
a Senate sitting day. Tuesday, June 14, 1994. with a court hearing
requiring this senator's attendance and requiring an adjudication
on parliamentary privilege. In proceeding. 1 assert that
Mr. Justice Matlow conducted improper, vitiated and
unconstitutional proceedings. He conducted corrupt proceedings.
He committed a legal and constitutional breach of' his office and
a breach of bis judicial oath.
POINT OF ORDER
Hon. John Lynch-Staunton (Leader of the Opposition):
Honourable senators. 1 rise on a point of order. If 1 heard
correctly, Senator Cools has made some very serious allegations
regarding members of the judiciary. 1 should think that this
language is unparliamentary. 1 have beard the word "corruption"
and other words attributed to a judge in a particular case in which
she has an interest.
Senator Murray: Where is the govemment? Tbey should be
defending the judiciary.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: We ask respect t'or ourselves as
parliamentarians. and we should show respect for another
essential branch of govemrment, the judiciary.
Your Honour, 1 would ask you to ask Senator Cools to retract
those comments.
The Hon. the Acting Speaker: I must confess that 1 was not
listening as attentively as I ougbt to have been, as I was checking
some documents. 1 do apologuze. However. I was under the
impression earlier that Senator Cools was quoting from
precedents.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: Senator Cools was quoting Lord
Denning and others, but she bas gone through that. Now she is
speaking for herseif.
The Hon. the Acting Speaker: Perhaps we ought to let the
debate proceed, and 1 wiIl pay close attention to the honourable
senator's comments.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: Thank you. sir.

November 1, 1995

Nove
mbe
1,
1995SENATE
DEBATES

Hon. Anne C. Cools: Honourable senators, that is what 1said.
In proceeding, 1 assert that Mr. Justice Matlow conducted
improper. vitiated and unconstitutional proceedings. He
conducted a corrupt proceeding. He committed a legal and
constitutional hreach of bis office and a breach of bis judicial
oath.

and made clear to the entire chamber that one must speak about a
judge within a particular context of a particular kind and quality
of motion. It is my understanding that 1 have fulfilled ail the legal
and constitutional requirements, but perhaps His Honour the
Acting Speaker could share with us the ruling made at that time.
0

Senator Lynch-Staunton: Your Honour. 1 hope you heard this
time. A judge is alleged to have conducted an improper and
corrupt proceeding.
Senator Cools: Yes.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: Surely there is a limit to the
freedom of speech in any assernbly, including this one, when the
judiciary is being so seriously attacked, with such malice and
without any support or proof whatsoever. If there is a problem
with judges, there are other avenues for correction, and this is the
last one that should be used.
Senator Kinsella: The Minister of Justice.
The Hon. the Acting Speaker: Order, please. May 1 bring to
honourable senators' attention - Senator Cools, would you
resume your seat, please.
I should like to draw honourable senators' attention to
Beauchesne's Sixth Edition, page 150, quotation 493, dealing
with protected persons:

2171
27

(1430>

The Hon. the Acting Speaker: We do have the citation from
the Speaker's ruling ofiJuly Il, 1995. I arn quoting from Minutes
of the Proceedings of the Senate at page 1163.
I arn at a disadvantage here. not having deait with this issue
myself. but 1 will quote to you the Speaker's words:
For my part, it would seem that while reflections on a
judge's character are not permitted as a general rule of
debate since the people occupying these positions are
described. according to Beauchesne in citation 493, -which

is the citation I just quoted

-

as "protected persons" and to do so, is unparliamentary,
precedent shows that it is permissible to make such
retiections if it is done by way of a substantive motion.

-

Senator Cools: Precisely.
The Hon. the Acting Speaker:

Ail references to judges and courts of justice of the nature
of personal attack and censure have always been considered
unparliamentary, and the Speaker has always treated them
as breaches of order. Members have been interrupted in
Committee of the Whole by the Chairman when they have
cast an imputation upon a judicial proceeding.

Senator Cools bas given appropriate notice and made such a
motion. Although the motion does not specifically caîl for
the removal of a judge of a superior court, the rules do not
indicate this is necessary at this point. Parliament bas the
constitutional right to request the dismissal of a judge, and 1
would hesitate to interfere with this right in any way.

Honourable senators, I arn informed by the Table Officers that
His Honour, the Speaker of the Senate. has already cautioned
honourable members in their references to judges and courts of
justice in those termis. 1 do not know if we have located that
caution voiced by His Honour, but I take it for a fact that hie has
cautioned honourable senators.

In any case, I believe that aIl honourable senators should
conduct themselves in a way that is beyond reproach, considering
that the people who are being accused or - 1 do not want to use
the phrase "put on trial" - attacked, or placed under suspicion,
are not here to defend themselves. It seems to me that it is a
sound parliamentary rule to be extremely cautious in our choice
of terms.

Therefore, 1 would invite Honourable Senator Cools to be very
careful in hier choice of words in describing judiciary
proceedings. If Parliament bas rights and privileges, so do the
courts. 1 believe that both Houses of Parliament have always
been extremely careful in their pronounicements on persons or
proceedings of the courts. 1 think it would be wise to be guided
by that long-standing practice.

Things can be said differently, but surely people have a right to
their own defence. That is impossible to, do when one is not
present to hear what is being said about oneself, which is a basic
parliamentary courtesy. I would invite Senator Cools, who is an
experienced parliamentarian, to, be, in case of doubt, extremely
careful in hier choice of words.

Senator Kinsella: Good decision!
Senator Cools: Honourable senators, His Honour, the Speaker
of the Senate, in a rather extensive ruling last July, settled the
questions to which you are referring and settled the very question
that Senator Lynch-Staunton bas raised. Perhaps the Chair could
give us some direction and refer directly back to His Honour's
statements at the time. It is my clear understanding that. at that
time. His Honour reviewed the very document that you have just
raised and the very issues that Senator Lynch-Staunton raised.

Senator Cools: 1 thank the Acting Speaker very sincerely.
Since we are speaking about the exercise of care and caution by
parliamentarians not to cast reflections upon one other, perhaps 1
could ask Senator Lynch-Staunton to explain to this chamber
what hie meant by my speaking about a case in which I have an
interest? This bas been raised before.
The Hon. the Acting Speaker: The debate upon this point of
order cannot go on forever. I would invite Senator Cools to use
up the rest of hier time on bier motion.

Senator Cools: I have no idea how much lime I have had. I
would like to make a statement, 10 wit: It is tiresome and hurtful
for certain senators to keep referring to cases in which I have a
persona] interest. when there are no cases before the courts. and
have not been for a substantial amount of time.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: Your Honour, my understanding is
that Senator Cools has asked me a question.
Senator Cools: You did flot respond. and he said it was not
necessary. He said that 1 should continue.
The Hon. the Acting Speaker: Order. please!
Senator Lynch-Staunton. are you rising on a further point of
order?
Senator Lynch-Staunton: I amn willing to answer Senator
Cools' question about the case to which I was referring. I want 10
reassure her that my understanding of her complaint is based on
the case in which she was recently involved in Toronto. As I
recail from what she told us, she had a problem in that she was
summoned to appear before the court at the same time that she
had duties before the Senate. That is the case to which 1 was
referring. If I amn wrong. I take it back.
Senator Cools: Please do.

Senator Lynch-Staunton: 1 have to admit that 1 have much
difficulty following Senator Cools' argumentation on her
problems with the Iudiciary.
Senator Cools: 1 amn pleased and happy that you are taking
back your comment, senator.

The Hon. the Acting Speaker: Senator Cools, 1 will allow
you t0 respond to the point of clarification. Earlier you inquired
of the Chair as to how much tirne you have Ieft. You have spoken
for 10 minutes. Discounting the time for points of order, there are
five minutes remaining in your time.
Senator Cools: Very weII. I would ask leave of honourable
senators to adjoum this niatter.
It is very disturbing when people constantly impugn one's
integrity. The only issues that I have ever raised in this chamber
regarding this matter are the issues that concern this Senate and
this chamber. I have neyer raised any other issue other than the
issues of breach of privilege and contempt of Parliament. 1 am
obviously a littie agitated. SO I would request leave to adjourn the
debate and continue it tornorrow.
On motion of Senator Cools, debate adjourned.
The Senate adjourned until tomorrow ai 2 p.m.

2173

THE SENATE
Thursday, November 2, 1995
The Senate met at 2:00 p.m., Senator Eymard G. Corbin,
Acting Speaker, in the Chair.

CANCELLATION OF WINTER FERRY SERVICE BETWEEN
YARMOUTH. NOVA SCOTIA AND BAR HARBOUR. MAINE

Prayers.

Hon. Gerald J. Comeau: Honourable senators, I rise today to
express my concern regarding the questionable future of Marine
Atlantic's winter service between Yarmouth, Nova Scotia, and
Bar Harbour, Maine.

[Translation]

SENATORS' STATEMENTS
NATIONAL UNITY
AFTERMATH OF QUEBEC REFERENDUMEXPLANATION OF COMMENTS IN PRESS

Hon. Lise Bacon: Honourable senators, I have always lived
by the same rule in my political life and since my arrival in
Ottawa: Speak to journalists as little as possible.
Yesterday, when leaving the Liberal Party caucus - through
the main door where danger always lurks - I met a journalist.
I do not wish to insult the reporter, Huguette Young of The
Canadian Press, but I should like, nevertheless, to explain to
honourable senators the questions that were asked of me and the
responses that were given because, of course, in a short article
there are only a few of the answers and none of the questions.
To Ms Young's question, "Do you think it will be symbolic?"
here she was speaking of the actions to be taken on Quebec
and the distinct society - I told her we had not yet reached that
stage, that there would be important decisions to be made shortly,
and that discussions were under way with a view to meeting
Quebecers' expectations.
-

To another question, "Will the decision be less than Meech?",
I responded that I did not think it would be less, because at
Meech Quebecers were listened to.
I added, however, that at Charlottetown, people were at least
on the same wavelength, and that the Prime Minister of Canada
will make the decision that meets Quebecers' expectations. It
seems to me that I repeated that answer three times.
I just wanted to give honourable senators a little more
information than what was reported in the newspaper, and I will
continue to follow the golden rule of talking to reporters as little
as possible.
[Eng lisi]

TRANSPORT

Marine Atlantic announced on September 7 that it was
cancelling winter sailings of this vital transportation link between
southwestern Nova Scotia and New England. The decision was
made without the benefit of any impact studies or analysis as to
the effect cancelling the service would have on the economy of
western Nova Scotia.
Apparently recognizing the consequences of making such a
hasty announcement, the date of cancellation was extended from
October 10 to December 31 to provide time for the provincial
govemment to do an impact study, which I understand has been
done. Although I applaud the decision of the Province of Nova
Scotia to undertake such a study, which I had asked for last June,
I am equally appalled by the statements of the Premier of Nova
Scotia, John Savage, who commented that, "It's now up to the
community to demonstrate.. .the case for retaining the ferry
during the winter months." What kind of leadership is this? Why
is the premier not out there supporting the people of
southwestern Nova Scotia?
I remember when the federal government first floated this idea
of providing six-month service between Yarmouth and
Bar Harbour. I was the member of Parliament for that region at
that time. I also remember the response of the then Premier of
Nova Scotia, who is now one of our colleagues in this chamber,
Senator Buchanan. He stood up to the Prime Minister at that time
and stated that the reduction of service was wrong.
Now we have a premier who refuses to stand up for Nova
Scotians. He simply says "use it or lose it." Perhaps he is taking
this approach to keep his federal leader happy. Perhaps this is the
new national policy, similar to the introduction of tolls on our
national highway system, a policy which has been implemented
without the benefit of debate in Parliament. Who knows? Perhaps
Premier John Savage has gone so far as to tell the Prime Minister
not to stick his neck out for this one, because in his mind the
service is gone, come hell or high water.
I can tell the premier that this is low water, because the people
of southwestern Nova Scotia deserve better representation than
that. There are people who will stand up and fight for this ferry
service, which is essential to the economic stability of all Nova
Scotians. Nova Scotians need a leader who will stand up and
fight for their province. whether it is for gun control, ferry
service or helicopters, not one who is concerned about keeping
his political friends in Ottawa happy.

Fortunately. Nova Scotia will have such a leader after the next
election, when the PC party under its new leader. John Hamm,
will provide truc representation on behaîf of the people.

[En glisli]

ROUTINE PROCEEDINGS

[Translation]

EXPLOSIVES ACT
NATIONAL UNITY

BILL TO AMEND-REPORT 0F COMM I'IEE

AFTERMATUI OF QUEBEC REFERENDUMCOMMENTS 0F JOHN NUNZIATA. M.P

Hon. Colin Kenny, Deputy Chairman of the Standing Senate
Committee on Energy, the Environment and Natural Resources.
presented the following report:

Hon. Marcel Prud'homme: Honourable senators. My
rernarks are f'or the entire Liberal caucus. 1 hope Senator
Fairbairn listens to my words carefully.
I knew John Nunziata well when 1 was a member of the caucus
of Liberal MPs and senators. 1 even chaired the caucus and had
some dificult moments under the leadership of' John Turner, a
very respectable man. I repeat. John Turner is a highly
respectable mati.
1 think that today. John Nunziata overdid it a bit, but then, we
know John Nunziata. 1 sincerely hope 1 arn heard by the
government leader in the Senate. who sits in cabinet and in the
caucus. and by aIl Liberals. I would hope, as weil, that at least
one or two of themn would rise to dissociate themselves totally
t'rom these remarks. which are absolutely unacceptable as we go
through a major crisis in Canada. where every word counts.

Thursday. November 2. 1995
The Standing Senate Cornrittee on Energy. the
Environment and Natural Resources has the honour Io
present its
EIGHTEENTH REPORT
Your Committee. to which was referred the Bill C-7 1, An
Act to arnend the Explosives Act, bas. in obedience to the
Order of Reterence of Tuesday. October 3 1 1995. examined
the said Bill and bas agreed to report the same without
arnendment.
Respectfully submitted.
COLIN KENNY

I am not. I repeat. particularhy sensitive to insult. 1 arn not
nervous, but 1 do know the ettect of each word and of the
comments made by Mr. NunLiata yesterday. Regardless ot
whether we agree or disagree with the former premier of Quebec,
Mr. Parizeau, or with Mr. Bouchard. Mr. Nunziata's comments
are comphetehy unacceptable.
If ordinary citizen John Nunziata makes such remarks, I have
to say that I and ail French Canadians in Quebec could not care
less. However. when eminent Liberal and former Liberal
leadership candidate John Nunziata makes such remarks, I
consider that they reflect on the entire caucus of Liberal senators
and MPs. I wouhd like someone to call himi to order.
In Mr. Pearson's time. such remarks wouhd
unacceptable. When a member such as
somewhat similar remarks. he was not only
was shown the caucus door. I do not think
here.

have been deemed
Mr. Cohen made
called to order, he
1 arn exaggerating

I arn not asking as much. 1 do sincerely hope that. as we go
through a major identity crisis. people will at least have the
necessary understanding. These remarks certainly do nothing to
improve harmonious relations among the various people making
up Canada. I still believe that Canada is the best country in the
world.

Deputv Chairinan

The Hon. the Acting Speaker: Honourable senators. when
shahl this bill be read the third time?
On motion of Senator Kenny. bill placed on the Orders of' the
Day f'or third reading at the next sitting of the Senate.
[Translation]

BUSINESS 0F THE SENATE
ADJOLJRNMENT

Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourable senators. with leave of the Senate,
and notwithstanding mile 58(1)hî), 1 move:
That when the Senate adjourns today. it do stand
adjoumned until Monday. November 6. 1995. at eight o'clock
in the evening.

The Hon. the Acting Speaker: Honourable senators. is leave
eranted?

Hon. Senators: ALreed.

1Sen.mioi

Coin&iu 1

MOTION STANDS

November 2, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

[En glish]

Hon. Noël A. Kinsella (Acting Deputy Leader of the
Opposition): Honourable senators, perhaps the Deputy Leader of
the Government would provide an explanation of the pressing
business before the chamber that requires the attendance of
senators next Monday evening.
Senator Prud'homme: Senator Carney will be upset!
Senator Graham: Honourable senators, that is a legitimate
question, because normally we sit Tuesday, Wednesday and
Thursday, although it is provided that our normal sitting days are
Monday to Friday. Of course, when we sit Tuesday to Thursday,
we must seek leave.
However, there are several outstanding matters which will be
taken under consideration, presumably next week and the rest of
this week. There is the further consideration of Bill C-69 and of
the motion of the Honourable Senator MacDonald with respect to
certain papers relating to the Pearson airport inquiry. As the
honourable senator knows, there is the possibility of pursuing the
establishment of a joint committee with respect to matters
relating to the Department of National Defence and the reserves,
and a report that was to be submitted to Parliament on
October 31.
We also have some bills for second reading, and they will
either be deait with today or will carry over to next Tuesday.
Certainly, Bill C-7 falls into that category and possibly one of the
other bills, if other senators want to speak to them. Two bills will
be receiving first reading today and, perhaps, second reading
next week; namely, Bill C-61 and Bill C-103.
As well, honourable senators, we will be heading into the long
holiday weekend. Barring unforeseen circumstances, we will
take the normal parliamentary break the following week. We
would like to ensure that all honourable senators, if we dispatch
our legislation, our duties and responsibilities expeditiously, will
be able to depart Ottawa in time to avoid the heavy weekend
traffic.
Senator Kinsella: Honourable senators, in order to prepare for
next week, can the Deputy Leader of the Government provide a
little bit more specificity? Is it the deputy leader's understanding
that honourable senators will be able to make their travel plans
for the Remembrance Day ceremonies in their various regions on
the basis that they will be able to leave Ottawa on Thursday? In
other words, we will sit Monday. Tuesday and Wednesday and, if
all goes well, can we expect to leave this place on Thursday?
0

(1420)

Senator Graham: Honourable senators, as you know, the
Deputy Leader of the Government is always anxious to
accommodate all honourable senators, particularly those who
reside in the remote areas of the country. I would be most
anxious to see that they are so accommodated. Without making
any definitive promises, I would hope that we would be able to
deal with ail pressing matters now before the Senate in due
course and with dispatch.

2175

Senator Kinsella: Can I take it, then, that at least a
self-fulfilling prophecy dynamic is operating - in other words,
by coming in on Monday, the expectation is that we will be able
to leave on Wednesday?
Senator Graham: Honourable senators, as the Acting Deputy
Leader of the Opposition knows, there have been discussions on
both sides. I have already explained what the proposais may be.
If we do complete our business on Wednesday, we would be able
to make plans to depart on Thursday. If not, we will complete our
business on Thursday and will be able to depart on Friday. If that
does not happen, then we will complete our business on Friday
and, hopefully, get home for Remembrance Day ceremonies,
wherever they may be in the country, on Saturday.
Senator Doody: What about Christmas?
Senator Graham: I am not making any promises this far in
advance about Christmas.
Hon. John Lynch-Staunton (Leader of the Opposition):
Honourable senators, I was in Senator Graham's position long
enough to know that it is very difficult, if not impossible, to give
firm, long-term schedules. On the other hand, it is only fair to the
members of this chamber that they know what can be expected
for the next seven days. There is nothing on the agenda that is so
pressing that the deputy leader could not at least say that we can
plan to travel to our ridings on Wednesday night, in order to be
there to meet responsibilities on the Remembrance Day weekend.
However, to leave us hanging like this, saying that if we do not
do something on Wednesday we will be here on Thursday or
Friday, is very unfair to members on both sides. We are only
talking about next week. There is nothing on the agenda so
pressing that we cannot commit ourselves to coming here on
Monday night, in order to allow ourselves to be in our ridings on
Friday and Saturday for Remembrance Day ceremonies.
Senator Graham: It was conveyed unofficially, prior to the
sitting, to the Acting Deputy Leader of the Opposition that it
would be my hope Senator Lynch-Staunton: We do not want hope; we want a
commitment.
Senator Graham: - that if we conduct the business of the
Senate as we should, then all honourable senators can make plans
to be home for Remembrance Day.
[Translation]

Hon. Marcel Prud'homme: Honourable senators, it does not
matter to me whether we sit on a Monday night, Sunday
morning, a Sunday night, Saturday, at Easter, on Christmas day
or whenever. I will be here. It seems to me that as sensible adults
we should be able to reach an understanding. I do not necessarily
agree with Senator Lynch-Staunton, but I fail to understand why
we have these incredible last-minute changes regarding when we
are supposed to sit or not supposed to sit.

I have made att kinds of commitments. 1 mention this because
of the referendum we just had. I have started a series of' meetings
in Montreal. 1 think that in the future we may need a more
rehiabte schedule.
Some of us take it for granted that we sit from Tuesday to
Thursday. I think we should try not to make commitments on
those days. By the way, next Wednesday marks the
3Oth anniversary of Warren Attemand's election. 1 hope the
Liberats will attend the cetebration. 1 am announcing that on
Wednesday. November 8. be witt cetebrate 30 years in politics.
1 wihh be there for the cetebration. 1 intend to, make a speech. This
is not an invitation to come and tisten to me speak. I can get to
the Senate and then go back to Montreal.
I am thinking of other senators. 1 reatty fait to understand why
we are being asked to sit Monday night. I understand thal the bil!
on etectoral boundaries readlustment is being hetd up in the
House of Commons. When 1 tatked to Senator Nolin and the
peophe who are working on this. 1 reatized that the bill was being
hetd up in the House of Commons. I no longer understand our
agenîda. I wish there were sume consensus on the agenda. Why
do we sit and why do we not sit?ý

The Hon. the Acting Speaker: Honourabte senators, there is
a probtem with the audio system. It is suggested that we adjourn
f'or five or ten minutes until the probtem is cteared Up.

unfotds. If honourable senators are agreed. 1 witl move the
adjournment later today.
Motion stands.

AGRICULTURE AND AGRI-FOOD
ADMINISTRATIVE MONETARY PENALTIES BILL
FIRST READING

The Hon. the Acting Speaker informed the Senate that a
message had been received from the House of Commons with
Bill C-61, to establish a system of administrative monetary
penalties for the enforcement of the Canada Agricultural
Products Act, the Feeds Act, the Fertitizers Act. the Health of
Animais Act, the Meat Inspection Act, the Pest Control Products
Act, the Plant Protection Act and the Seeds Act.
Bill read first time.

The Hon. the Acting Speaker: Honourable senators, when
shal! this bill be read the second time?
On motion of Senator Graham, bill placed on the Orders of the
Day tor second reading on Tuesday. November 7. 1995.

EXCISE TAX ACT
INCOME TAX ACT

[En glis il
Apparenthy there is no interpretation. Perhaps we shoutd put
the sitting on hotd untit the probtem is corrected Honourabte senators, 1 have a new announcement to make. It
seems that the system is now functioning. Tlicrefore the sitting
continues.
Honourabte senators, we are now dealing with the motion of
Senator Graham. If there are no further interventions, I wiht put
the motion to the house.

Hon. Herbert 0. Sparrow: Honourable senators. perhaps I
missed something in the interpretation on the question that was
asked by the previous speaker. Is the Deputy Leader ot the
Govemment in the Senate prepared to state that unhess there are
unforeseen circumstances, the Senate witt adjourn next
Wednesday for the weekend?

BILL TO AMEND

The Hon. the Acting Speaker intormed the Senate that a
message had been received trom the House of Commons with
Bill C-103, to amend the Excise Tax Act and the Income Tax
Act.
Bill read tirst time.

The Hon. the Acting Speaker: Honourabte senators. when
shail this bit! be read the second time?
On motion of Senator Graham, bill placed on the Orders of the
Day for second reading on Tuesday, November 7, 1995.

SUPREME COURT 0F CANADA
DECISION ON PRIVILEGES

Senator Graham: Honourable senators. I was about to
respond to ait honourabte senators that it is possible we coutd
adjourn by Wednesday. I am sure that aIl honourabte senators
woutd appreciate that if those of us who have the responsibility
of making decisions l'or the Senate or recommendations to the
Senate are to err, we woutd err on the side of Monday, rather than
Thursday or Friday. It is hoped that we wiht be able to comptete
our work on Wednesday. In fact. it is conceivabte that we may do
so.

FIRST READING

0F

THE COURT-NOTICE

0F INQUJRY

Hon. Anne C. Cools: Honourabte senators, pursuant to
ruhes 56(l) and (2) and 57(2), 1 give notice thai 1 witl cal! the
attention of the Senate to a decision of the Supreme Court of
Canada. priviteges of the court. and the tearned judgment
rendered by the distinguished Justice, the Honourabte Mr. Justice
Peter deC. Cory.
[Translation]

Senator Kinsetta: Honourable senators. for the greatest ctaritv
l'or everyone. perhaps the Deputy Leader of' the Governmient
could review the woî-k that mtîst be done next week.

GUN CONTROL LEGISLATION

Senator Grahami: Honourabte senators. perhaps t shon Id
delay the adjournnment motion and wc wiII sec how the dehate
1Senaloi Prutd heoinine 1

Hon. .Jean-ouis Roux: Honourable ',enators. I draA xour
attention to tlie Iact that. on October 19. Monti-cats ciI'y counici I

PRESEN [AiION Ol Ph] ITION

November 2, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

2177

2177

SENATE DEBATES

November 2. 1995

unanimously approved a resolution asking the Senate to quickly
pass Bill C-68. the gun control legisiation.
[En glish]
PRESENTATION 0F PETITION

Hon. John Lyncb-Staunton (Leader of the Opposition):
Honourable senators, 1 should like to present a petition on behaîf
of 49 citizens of Perth, Ontario, who ask that the Senate
withdraw ail support for Bill C-68.

QUESTION PERIOD

CORNWALLIS PARK DEVELOPMENT AGENCY-REOUEST FOR
INVESTIGATION BY AUDITOR GENERAL GOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. Gerald J. Comeau: Honourable senators, given
that $20 million is a rather large sum of money, could the leader
advise us as to whether the Auditor General has been asked to
investigate the questions and the allegations pertaining to the
interniaI administration of the agency and the board of directors?
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government): 1 cannot
answer that question today, honourable senators. I will attempt to
do so later.
I have just conveyed the information that ACOA itself is
undertaking an audit, and 1 imagine it will be allowed to continue
and come to its own conclusions.
ANS WERS TO ORDER PAPER QUESTIONS TABLED

ATLANTIC CANADA OPPORTUNITIES AGENCY
CORNWALLIS PARK DEVELOPMENT AGENCY-ALLEGATIONS
0F MISMANAGEMENT-RESPONSE 0F MINISTER

Hon. Gerald J. Comeau: Honourable senators, yesterday, I
asked a question to the Leader of the Govemment in the Senate
regarding the Cornwallis Park Development Agency, the
mandate of which is to attract businesses to the area in the wake
of the closing of the base at Cornwallis. Given the fact that we
are talking about very large sums of taxpayers' dollars somewhere in the vicinity of $20 million - could the Leader of
the Govemnment tell us what steps her colleague Minister David
Dingwall has taken to address the serious allegations regarding
the operations of the agency, including reports that assets have
been leaving the base, such as church pews which have ended up
in the church attended by the local member of Parliament.
1 do not take exception to churches obtaining church pews.
However, having them wind up in the church attended by a
member of Parliament raises some questions. This has taken
place in spite of the fact that ail assets were to have been frozen
until the deed was transferred from the Department of National
Defence to the Cornwallis agency.
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, I cannot respond to the specifics of my
honourable friend's questions conceming the pews. 1 should be
more than happy to receive from my honourable friend any of the
news reports to which he has referred.
As I said yesterday, this is a locally established not-for-profit
agency. Concerns have been raised similar to those my
honourable friend is raising today, with respect to internaI
administration matters within that agency. 1 am advised that
ACOA has subsequently undertaken an audit of the operations of
the agency. When the prnhhems are resnlved, the funding will he
restored. At the moment. the funding stands in abeyance, as my
honourable friend knows.
Senator Comeau: Honourable senators. I would be happy to
send to the Leader of' the Government the information and the
sources of the intormation which I have obtained.

USE 0F GOVERNMENT AIRCRAFT

Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government) tabled the answer to Question No. 97 on the Order
Paper - by Senator LeBreton.
CANADA POST CORPORATION

Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government) tabled the answer to Question No. 101 on the
Order Paper - by Senator Comeau.
BUSINESS 0F THE SENATE
Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourable senators, before we proceed to
Orders of the Day, with respect to govemment business and the
bills before us, as a courtesy to ail honourable senators and at the
request of the opposition, there will be a slight variation with
respect to the order in which government business will be called
today. I emphasize that this is at the request of the opposition.
*(1441)

Therefore, honourable senators, we will proceed with Item
No. 1, Bill C-105, then Item No. 4, Bill C-102, and then reveil to
the normal order as on the Order Paper. Therefore item No. 2
becomes No. 3, and No. 3 becomes No. 4, and then the Order
Paper will follow as it is printed.

ORDERS 0F THE DAY
INCOME TAX CONVENTIONS
IMPLEMENTATION BILL, 1995
SECOND READING

Hon. Peter Bosa moved the second reading of Bill C- 105,
implement a convention between Canada and the Republic
Latvia. a convention hetween Canada and the Rcpublic
Estonia. a convention between Canada and the Republic

to
of
of'
of

Trinidad and Tobago. and a protocol between Canada and the
Republic of Hungary, for the avoidance of double taxation and
the prevention of fiscal evasion with respect to taxes on income.
He said: Honourable senators, I appreciate the opportunity to
speak today to Bill C-105, the Income Tax Conventions
Implementation Bill. 1995. This is a piece of work-a-day
legislation that I hope will receive speedy passage by this
chamber. It is not a contentious bill.
Bill C-105 implements reciprocal income tax conventions
between Canada and Latvia, and Canada and Estonia, and
amends the 1966 convention between Canada and Trinidad and
Tobago. It also contains a protocol amending the current income
tax treaty between Canada and Hungary. At present. Canada has
55 double taxation treaties with other countries. Passage of
Bill C-105 will increase that number to 57.
Tax conventions are designed with two main objectives: to
avoid double taxation on income tax and to prevent income tax
evasion. Not all tax treaties, however, require parliamentary
approval. If the end result of a tax matter is already provided for
under the Income Tax Act. then no legislative authority is
required. An example would be an agreement confirming the
tax-exempt status of airline and shipping profits under the
Income Tax Act. Since double taxation treaties do. in fact,
change the effect of domestic legislation, particularly the Income
Tax Act, they always require parliamentary approval, as do
amending protocols.
Canada began negotiating tax treaties when the 1971 income
tax reform legislation required Canada to expand its network of
double taxation conventions with other countries. While there is
a lengthy process involved in negotiating a tax treaty, no
legislative authority is needed to negotiate and sign a tax treaty
relationship with a particular country. However, three primary
factors are taken into consideration when Canada decides to
negotiate a tax treaty with another country: First, how much
Canadian investment is planned for a country is considered:
second, Canada's interest in wanting to encourage economic
reforms in that country is weighed; and third, the interest in that
country in expanding its trade and economic relations with
Canada is also looked at.
The decision to pursue a tax treaty can also result from an
announcement in a budget. The 1992 and 1993 budgets, for
example, each contained relevant measures. The 1992 budget
contained an announcement that Canada was willing to reduce its
withholding tax on direct dividends to meet international norms.
Then it was announced in the 1993 budget that Canada was
willing to eliminate its withholding tax on specific royalties to
ensure the competitiveness of our technological industry.
Bill C-105 addresses the dual issue of fair taxation and good
international relations. These tax treaties and the protocol are

similar to conventions already concluded by Canada and
approved previously here in this chamber. Each treaty has been
negotiated individually, and has taken into account each
country's relevant policies. In addition, the treaties in Bill C-105
are all patterned after the Model Double Taxation Convention
prepared by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development.
Bill C-105 also provides an equitable solution to the double
taxation problems that exist between Canada and these countries.
Double taxation occurs where international transactions result in
the same income being taxable in the hands of the same person
by more than one country.
Further, the protocol with Hungary brings that treaty in line
with current Canadian tax policy regarding withholding task
rates. a matter I will discuss in a moment.
For the treaties with Estonia, Latvia. and Trinidad and Tobago,
here is a brief summary of what Bill C-105 provides: There will
be a 5 per cent withholding tax rate on dividends paid to a parent
company and on branch profits, and a 10 per cent withholding
tax rate on interest and royalties. For Trinidad and Tobago,
management fees are also included. A withholding tax rate of
15 per cent will apply on other dividends.
There are also a number of exemptions in regard to interest.
For Estonia and Latvia. interest to the governments, the central
banks, the Export Development Corporation and from sales made
on credit will be zero-rated. For Trinidad and Tobago, interest
paid for government indebtedness, on loans or credit from the
Export Development Corporation, and to pension funds will also
be zero-rated.
Any future changes that Estonia and Latvia may extend to
other OECD countries concerning the withholding tax on
copyright and patent royalties will also be extended to
Canadians. Trinidad and Tobago will maintain the exemption on
copyright royalties.
Pension payments will be taxed at a maximum rate of
15 per cent in the source country. as will annuity payments in
Trinidad and Tobago. War pensions in Trinidad and Tobago will
be exempt.
In addition, social security pensions will be taxed in the
originating country. and the withholding tax rate on annuity
payments will drop to 10 per cent.
Two matters apply specifically to Trinidad and Tobago: There
will no longer be a two-year exemption for visiting teachers, and
seasonal workers earning under $8,500 will not have to pay
Canadian tax.

November 2, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

The protocol negotiated with Hungary is somewhat different
in that it amends an existing tax treaty between Canada and
Hungary. This treaty reduced the withholding tax rate to
10 per cent on dividends paid to a parent company, and
15 per cent in all other cases. Canada's willingness, as announced
in the 1992 budget, to reduce its withholding tax on direct
dividends to 5 per cent led to the protocol included in this bill.
Bill C-105 subsequently reduces that rate, and the rate of branch
tax to 5 per cent by 1997. There are no changes in the rate of
withholding tax on other dividends.
In an increasingly interdependent, open, global economy,
reciprocal tax treaties make sense. They are important tools for
countries. The benefits tax treaties provide in helping to stabilize
tax systems foster international trade and investment, which are
very important in today's environment.
There will be no revenue loss to Canada from the concessions
contained in these conventions. Along with gaining from
increased trade and investment, we will also gain from the
reduced withholding tax rates and other concessions granted by
the treaty partners.
0

(14s)

As I said earlier, there is nothing contentious in this bill, and I
urge honourable senators to give it speedy passage.
Hon. John Sylvain: Honourable senators, I do not see a need
to speak in great detail on the bill at this point. I believe my
colleague opposite has given an extensive description of its main
provision. It would be my suggestion that the appropriate place
to examine this legislation in detail is in committee.
I do, however, have one question regarding this bill. It has to
do with the legislative process it followed in arriving in the
Senate. Canada has negotiated about 60 tax treaties with various
countries in the past. Many, if not all of these, have been given
effect by bills such as the one before us today. As senators will
recall, the most recent one in this chamber was Bill S-9, the
Canada-United States Tax Convention bill. This bill was
introduced first in this chamber and then passed on to the other
place - somewhat the reverse of what usually occurs.
Honourable senators, when I learned that Bill C-105 had been
introduced first in the House of Commons, I was curious as to
why this change of process from Bill S-9, and I had some
research done into the question of the traditional route for bills of
this nature. The question was: Is it the House of Commons first
or the Senate first? I was surprised to learn that one must go back
a great many years to find a bill of this nature being initiated in
the House of Commons.
Honourable senators, my question is directed to the Leader of
the Government in the Senate, or to the Deputy Leader. Why the
change in procedure with respect to Bill C-105? Why did the
government decide not to initiate this legislation in this chamber.
as has been done with many previous bills of this kind?
Honourable senators, please understand that this is not just idle
curiosity on my part. It has been a long-standing complaint of

2179

senators on both sides of this house that the manner in which
legislation flows is at times less than optimal. It has been stated
often that this house could be better utilized, and the legislative
calendar better managed, if more bills were initiated in this place.
It would balance the flow. The decision to break with past
practices in relation to this taxation convention bill causes me to
think that the government of the day thinks otherwise.
Apart from this question, honourable senators, I repeat that I
believe this legislation can best be examined before committee
where departmental officials can be called upon to speak ta the
details of the bill.
The Hon. the Acting Speaker: Honourable senators, I am not
sure if Senator Bosa is responding to a direct question or if he is
rising ta close debate on second reading. If he is indeed rising to
close debate, I should advise honourable senators that that would
have the effect of closing the debate on second reading of this
bill.
Hon. Noël A. Kinsella (Acting Deputy Leader of the
Opposition): Honourable senators, I should like to address the
questions raised by my honourable colleague Senator Sylvain. If
Senator Bosa, the sponsor of the bill, has that information,
perhaps he could relay it to the Deputy Leader of the
Government. However, if Senator Bosa speaks again, as the
Acting Speaker has told us correctly, the debate will be over.
There is an issue of principle here, although I suppose it does
not relate to the principle of the bill. However, the principle is
that, in the past, these kinds of bills have always been initiated in
the Senate. This bill today represents a change in that practice,
and when there is a change, we would like to know the policy
behind that change. Perhaps those who are supporting this bill
would share with us why there has been a change of policy.
Senator Bosa: Honourable senators, I agree with Senator
Sylvain that this is a different practice. In all my years in the
Senate, we have always dealt first in this chamber with such
legislation. Why this practice has now changed and why the bill
was initiated in the House of Commons is a mystery to me at this
moment. This legislation was given to me recently, and I am as
anxious as Senator Sylvain to learn in committee why this
change in practice has occurred.
With that in mind, honourable senators, I move that Bill C-105
be referred to the Standing Senate Committee on Banking, Trade
and Commerce.
The Hon. the Acting Speaker: Senator Bosa, the Chair
recognized you to respond to a question, but now you are making
a motion to refer the bill to committee.
Senator Sylvain: Honourable senators, before we close the
debate on this matter, Senator Bosa has said that he could not
respond right now. Perhaps he would be good enough to respond
as soon as possible, and give us the reasons why this change has
been made.
Motion agreed to and bill read second time.

REFERRED TO COMMITFrEE

The Hon. the Acting Speaker: Honourable senators. when
shahl this bill be read the third time?
On motion of Senator Bosa, bill referred to the Standing
Senate Committee on Banking. Trade and Commerce.
[Translation]

CUSTOMS ACT
CUSTOMS TARIFF
BILL TO AMEND-SECOND READING

Hon. Céline Hervieux-Payette moved second reading of
Bihl C- 102, to amend the Customs Act and the Customs Tariff
and to make related and consequential amendments to other acts.
She said: Honourable senators, 1 welcome this opportunity to
open the debate on second reading of Bill C-I101 to amend the
Customs Act and the Customs Tari ff.
Honourable senators will recail that this bill proposes major
tariff changes that wiIl greatly benefit Canadian businesses and
consumers in the long run. These changes include the
enhancement to Canada's duty deferral programis and tariff
reductions on a wide range of manufacturing inputs, which will
improve the competitive position of Canadian industry by
lowering input costs.
Bill C- 102 provides for the updating of travellers' exemptions.
This measure, combined with other measures contained in the
bill. wilh facilitate the processing of travellers and telp our
customs officers to focus on real priorities like cracking down on
smugglers and processing our growing commercial imports.
The legishation also contains several technical changes that
will help improve the customs tariff's application. One of the
most significant changes in this regard deals with the value for
duty of imported goods.

Right now. the discrepancy between Canadian and U.S. tariff
rates negatively affects Canadian manufacturers, mainly in
export markets. Exporters are reimbursed for their input duty
through what is known as "duty drawback". However, existing
duty drawback entitlements will end in January 1996 under a
NAFTA commitment. Because we want Canadian exporters to
enjoy the full benefit of our free trade agreements. we are
bringi ng our tariffs on inputs int fine with those of' the United
States.
Another key provision of this bill is the enhancement of
Canada's duly deferral programs whicb defer duties on import
goods pending tbeir formai entry into Canada. in situations where
those inputs are ultimately destined for export from Canada.
Canada currently bas threc duty deferral programs: duty
drawback, inward processing, and bonded warehousing. For
some time. Canadian business has been urging the goverfment to
make these programs more competitive and comparable to tbose
of our major trading partniers. The bill beibre us responds to that
need. By enhancing. streamhlining and consolidating our duty
deferral programs. it will lower costs for Canada's exporters, and
make our programs more easily accessible by small and
medium-sized business.
I want to emphasize that these changes enjoy broad industry
and regional support.
Related to the duty deferral amendments is a cbange to the
Access to Information Act. This cbange protects tbe
confidentiality of taxpayer information provided by the
importing community under the Custom Act, Customs Tari ff, and
the Special Import Measures Act.
A further amendment set out in this legislation is essentially an
updating measure. 1 ami referring to tbe increase of' duty
exemptions for Canadians travelling abroad. Travellers'
exemptions are adjusted periodically. However, our exemptions
have not been increased since 1983. As a result, they are
currently out of fine with exemptions provided by our major
trading partners. This bill will raise the levels of exemptions as
follows: to $50 trom $20. after a 24-hour absence; to $200 from
$100 after 48 bours: and, to $500 from $300 after seven days.
with the once-a-year limit being dropped.

Honourable senators. at second reading, my honourable
colleague described in some detail the main tariff changes
contained in this bill. 1 will therefore simply restate the
provisions in question.

These changes will benefit travellers and streamline customs
operations. They are also consistent with the Canada-U.S.
Accord on Our Shared Border, to permit travellers and goods to
move easily across the Canada-U.S. border. The new travellers'
exemptions are already operating without disruption or revenue
loss.

[En glish]

The bill also contains measures to streamline Canada
Customs' clearance procedures under what are known as "~basket
tariff items." This systemn replaces thousands of existing
categories of goods witb as few as 12 categories. As a result.
collection of duties from travellers at the boarder could be
speeded up by more than 50 per cent.

1 wilI commence with the reduction of tariffs on a wide range of
manufacturing inputs.
This amendment wiIh enhance the competitiveness of
Canadian producers. both internationally and within Canada. by
removing a competitive disadvantage that currenthy burdens
Canadian manufacturers vis-a-vis their U.S. competitors. It wilh
do ibis by reducing to UT.S. hevels tariffs on some 1.50<) imported
inanufacturino inputs.

In addition to tbe amendments 1 have discussed. this bill
contains a nuniber of other changes of' a largely technical or
housekeepinc nature. Most will serve to clan f'y the intent of
ex isti ng cuistims and tari Il prov isions. Perhaps the mosi

November 2, 1995

November 2, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

SENATE DEBATES

important of these deals with the value for duty of imported
goods. It is essential that Canada's valuation rules not be
vulnerable to manipulation or abuse. The valuation amendment
will clarify our existing policy, that goods must be valued on the
basis of the price actually paid by the Canadian importer.
Without such clarification, there is a risk that goods could be
valued according to the price between two foreign parties. This
could mean lower customs' values, and with it, lower duties and
taxes. This was clearly never intended under the GATT Valuation
Code.
The amendment is consistent with, and will serve to clarify,
Canada's longstanding policy on valuation, a policy which is in
complete conformity with our international commitments. Our
major trading partners, who have long been aware of Canada's
approach to valuation, are aware of our proposed amendment,
and have not raised any concerns about our policy or the
amendment.
I would now like to point out to my honourable colleagues that
the legislation does contain one tariff increase. The British
preferential tariff is being withdrawn from certain rubber
footwear, thereby restoring the 20 per cent most favoured nation
tariff rate. Former British preferential tariff imports will now
compete on the same basis as other foreign suppliers.
At the same time, I would note that the bill allows for future
improvements to preferential tariff treatment for the world's
poorest developing countries.
To sum up, this legislation is about promoting
competitiveness, increasing exports, and enhancing employment
prospects for Canadians. Not surprisingly then, the great majority
of Canadians affected by these changes will welcome them.
I therefore strongly urge all my colleagues in this chamber to
support this bill.
[Translation]

Hon. Roch Bolduc: Honourable senators, as you know, trade
is the motor of the Canadian economy.
Last year, our exports of merchandise and goods totalled
$220 billion, more or less the equivalent of one-third of every
dollar we earn in this country. This year, our exports are again
expected to reach record levels.
[English]

Indeed, exports have doubled since the former Progressive
Conservative government signed the Free Trade Agreement in
1988. Since then, exports to the United States have climbed in
each of the 21 commodity sectors measured by Statistics Canada.
Honourable senators may recall how those who now sit on the
government benches fought against free trade, saying it would
destroy our economy and turn us into the fifty-first state.
Honourable senators opposite may also recall the following from
the Red Book:

2181l
2181

A Liberal Government will renegotiate both the FTA and
NAFTA to obtain: a subsidies code: an anti-dumping code: a
more effective dispute resolution mechanism, and the same
energy protection as Mexico.
No substantive changes were made to NAFTA prior to its
implementation, and for good reason. Freer trade means jobs and
opportunities. The FTA and NAFTA are working. However, as a
trading nation, we also import goods and services. While free
trade means that it is easier to bring goods into the country, we
still have rules. Even though they may be diminishing in
importance, we still have tariffs. Tariffs on imports can make
goods produced in Canadian factories less competitive both at
home and abroad by driving up the cost of the final product.
About one-third of the inputs used by our factories are imported.
In 1992, the Prosperity Steering Group said Canada's
most-favoured-nation, or MFN, rates on manufacturing inputs
should be reduced to the levels faced by our competitors in the
United States. MFN tariff rates in the U.S. on average are
3.2 percentage points below Canadian levels.
In the 1994 budget. the Liberal government said it would
continue the previous government's review of the tariff system,
including the effect of tariffs on input costs. Consultation with
the private sector found broad support for lower MFN tariffs.
Bill C-102 reduces most-favoured-nation tariffs on a wide range
of inputs classified under some 1,500 tariff lines, retroactive to
June 13, 1995. The cuts bring those rates in line with those in the
United States. We are told that future cuts will be made as the
United States lowers its rates to comply with the World Trade
Organization Agreement.
0 (1510)

The government has various programs to help relieve the
effects of duty on business. For example, Ottawa will refund
duties on inputs used to make goods that are then exported.
The government says that the changes in this bill will enhance
export-based duty deferral programs, first, by streamlining such
programs; second, by making the programs easier for businesses
of all sizes to use by removing some administrative rules; third,
by providing more up-front relief of duties; and, fourth, by
allowing local government and business to market the programs
more effectively abroad. Such measures are most welcome.
At the same time, we are told that the changes to the Access to
Information Act will help keep confidential the information
importers give to Canada Customs.
Bill C-102 raises the current duty-free limits for travellers
retroactive to last June 13, bringing them in line with those of
other countries.
Goods from most Commonwealth members also qualify for
the British Preferential Tariff or BPT. These rates are usually
higher than the general provincial tariff or GPF rates, but lower
than most-favoured-nation tariffs.

In 1994. rubber footwear ceased to qualify f'or the lower
general tariff. a response to concerns from Canadian
manufacturers. However, several producers of footwear also
qualily for the British preferential tariff'. As a result. low-cost
rubber footwear can still enter the country at reduced tariff rates.
Bill C- 102 ends the British preferential tariff for rubber footwear.
Bill C-102 will also give the government more flexibility
when it extends preferential tariffs to the world's poorest
developing countries. Ottawa could expand the list of goods trom
such countries as qualify for lower rates, or it could vary the
tariff on certain goods, for example. by establishing a set ot rates
that is lower than the most favoured nation rate but higher than
the general preferential tariff rate.
Finally, this bill contains a number of what we are told are
mainly technical changes to various tariff-related laws. The
government says that these tariffs are to clarify. streamline or
make more transparent, varlous rules.
Honourable senators. let us move this bill into committee for
further study.
Motion agreed to and bill read second time.
REFERRED TO COMMITVEE

The Hon. the Acting Speaker: Honourable senators. when
shaîl this bill be read the third time?
On motion of Senator Hervieux-Payette. bill referred to the
Standing Senate Comimittee on Banking. Trade and Commerce.

CULTURAL PROPERTY EXPORT AND IMPORT ACT
INCOME TAX ACT
TAX COURT 0F CANADA ACT
BILL TO AMEND-SECOND READING

Hon. Michael Kirby moved the secondj reading of Bill C-93,
to amend the Cultural Property Export and Import Act, the
Income Tax Act and the Tax Court of Canada Act.
He said: Honourable senators. I rise today to move second
reading of Bill C-93, te, amend the Cultural Properties Export Act
and Import Act, the Income Tax Act and the Tax Court of Canada
Act. The simple purpose of this bill is to amend these acts in
order to establish an appeal mechanism to the Tax Court of
Canada for a determination from the Canadian Cultural Property
Export Review Board of the fair market value of certified
cultural property, most commonly a work of art. Having given
you that long, wonderlul. technical phrase, let me tell you what
the bill essentially does.
In the budget of' February 1990. the responsibility for
determining the fair market value of'cultural property donated to
Canadian museumrs. libraries and art galleries was moved from
the Department of Revenue Canada to the Cuîltural Property
Export Review Board. The amendments putting this transfer into

1 Senator Bolduc 1

effect becanie law at the end of 1991, and the review board
assumed its new responsibility in January 1992.
At the time this transfer was done, no provision was put in
place l'or any appeal mechanism to the review hoard decision.
Therefore if someone who wished to donate a certitied cultural
property to a Canadian cultural institution did not like the
valuation put on the value of that donation by the review board.
there was no way to appeal that valuation.
Prior to the creation of the review board, there had been an
appeal mechanism in place. When this responsibility rested with
Revenue Canada, an appeal mechanism existed. When the
change was made, that was clearly neglected. and no appeal
mechanism was put in place.
Consequently. people who want to donate cultural artifacts to
varlous institutions - and indeed the institutions themselves are
also aftected by this - are left in a position where. if either side
of a transaction does not like the value. there is no appeal process
and they must simply take the value as given to, them by the
review board.
The purpose of this bill is to, make one very simple change in
the process, namely to put in place an appeal mechanism, that
appeal mechanism being the Tax Court of Canada. Therefore, il
you wish to make a donation to someone or some institution of a
work of art. you go to the review board and have it valued. Il.you
do not agree with that value, or if the institution to which you are
making the donation does not agree with that value. either of the
two sides can then go to a neutral third party called the Tax Court
ot Canada in order to appeal the valuation.
Honourable senators, ail this bill does is puts in place a review
mechanism within the purview of the Tax Court of Canada; a
review mechanisni that previously existed when the predecessor
of the current review board, Revenue Canada, was in charge.
When the change was made in 1990, the elimination of this
review mechanism was merely an oversight. The purpose of this
change to the Cultural Properties Export and Import Act is to put
that review mechanism in place in order to ensure that there is a
greater degree of fairness to the procedures involved in
evaluating a donation that an individual wishes to make to a
museum. an art gallery. archives. libraries, and so on.
Honourable senators. this is a very simple bill. 1 have
explained briefly what it does. Therefore. 1 hope that we can
support quick passage of this bill at second reading.

Hon. Mira Spivak: Honourable senators, this legislation
deserves support since it returns to donors. museums. archives
and libraries. as Senator Kirby has said. a right they lost five
years ago. The right to appeal to the Tax Court of Canada when
the value of their gift is in dispute will not directly affect the vast
majority of Canadians. but it will help preserve for them. and for
future generations. millions of dollars' worth of' culturally
significant works of art. artifacts and papers. That is the intent of'
the Cultural Property Export and Import Act. This amendment
before us. although largely a technical one. will help turther that
ilutent.

November 2, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

2183

To give just one example of what could happen if we did not
have this legislation in place, I recall the interest that was shown
in Louis Riel's diary when it was discovered in Manitoba just 25
years ago. The 1885 record tumed up in a box of papers held by
a former Winnipeg newspaper man, an historian. At the time,
archivists on the Prairies showed little interest in buying it. With
no law to prevent it leaving the country and no tax incentive to
encourage donation, the diary was sold at auction in Montreal
for $26,500. A great deal of interest was shown by collectors
from Texas. Fortunately, the successful bidder was former
Conservative member of Parliament Gene Rheaume and his
partners, Bill Neville and Bill Lee. The Winnipeg woman who
took it to auction recalls that the American collectors were
somehow persuaded to allow it to remain in this country. The
diary was sold again, and, in the mid-eighties, purchased from its
Edmonton owner by the Saskatchewan government for $75,000.
It now has a permanent place in the Saskatchewan Archives.

determine the value of objects. Disputes have arisen in
10 per cent of the cases. The financial press has claimed that
some donations have been greatly overvalued. Tax lawyers and
collectors have complained of consistent under-evaluations. The
slow pace of the process has been blamed for the loss of one
painting in 1993 which sold at auction in New York for almost
$2 million. That same year an independent consultant spoke with
art dealers, collectors and the review board and found unanimous
consent that a method of appealing the board's decision was
needed.

Six years after that Montreal auction, the Cultural Property
Export and Import Act came into force. Since then, Canadians
have donated objects valued at some $700 million based on fair
market assessment. Not ail have the immense historical value of
a Riel diary, but, without question, they are worth far more today
than the day they were donated and will only continue to increase
in value.

Honourable senators, few of us are art experts, historians or
tax experts. As parliamentarians, we can claim expertise in
seeing the value of laws that preserve our country's history and
identity. Our institutions do not have the resources to buy up
everything of value. Experts who work in them, as some did
25 years ago after seeing the Riel diary, may occasionally fail to
recognize a treasure and part with their limited money to acquire
it. We need a strong system to encourage donations. The
amendment before us modestly strengthens it and for that reason,
on balance, I support it.

Almost 300 museums. archives and libraries across Canada are
eligible to receive these donations under the act and to encourage
those gifts through reduced taxes. Our national institutions
depend increasingly on these donations to build their collections.
For example, in 1974, three years before the act was in place, the
National Archives received papers valued at a very
modest $102,000. Ten years later, the value had increased to
$1.5 million, and by last year it had doubled to more than
$3.8 million. The National Gallery has received gifts of art
valued at almost $5 million in the last five years alone. That is
almost one-third the amount the gallery spent to acquire new
works during that period. Now many institutions are seeing their
budgets to purchase new works reduced or frozen.
Critics of the act have called it a tax loophole for the wealthy.
Certainly owners of cultural objects receive more generous tax
concessions than our tax law gives others who donate money to
charity. The amendments before us do not alter that situation, and
perhaps that is something the government should review. It is
worth noting that in practice, unless an object is valued at more
than $1,000, the review process does not happen. The incentive
aims to keep significant works of art, artifacts and papers in this
country, not to create a widely used tax scam.
Critics suggest that some $60 million in tax credits yearly
places too great a burden on taxpayers. I suggest it is false
economy to eliminate something that almost immediately gives
the public double its investment. In effect, taxpayers acquire
objects at almost half price. Soon their value increases and their
cultural worth is invaluable.
There has also been considerable criticism of the review board
in recent years, particularly since 1991 when it began to

That is aIl this legislation will do, restore to donors a right they
had when Revenue Canada conducted assessments. First they
must ask the review board for a reassessment, or the institution
that receives the donation can ask the board for one. I have some
concern about increasing the board's workload. It has a very
small staff and is already so taxed that it has not delivered an
annual report since the 1991-92 fiscal year.

Hon. John B. Stewart: Honourable senators, I assume that the
bill will be sent to a committee for consideration. There are two
or three questions I should like to have answered. I will mention
them now so that when the bill is in committee the answers can
be brought forth readily.
First, I should like to know what the average annual dollar
value of the gifts has been over the last few years. Senator
Spivak just now mentioned to some extent what the experience
was with appeals when Revenue Canada was in charge of this
program. I think we should be told in committee what percentage
of the cases in which an evaluation was made went to appeal,
when there was an appeal, and in terms of value what percentage
went to appeal. The third question is how the criteria for
evaluation are set. I am especially interested in the criteria used
in evaluating papers which are donated to public institutions.
Motion agreed to and bill read second time.
REFERRED TO COMMITTEE

The Hon. the Acting Speaker: Honourable senators, when
shall this bill be read the third time?
Hon. Michael Kirby: Honourable senators. I move that the
bill be referred to the Standing Senate Committee on Banking,
Trade and Commerce. I thank Senator Stewart for his questions.
I can assure him that we will deal with those questions in detail
when the bill comes before the committee.

On motion of Senator Kirby. bill referred to the Standing
Senate Committee on Banking. Trade and Commerce.

CONTROLLED DRUGS AND SUBSTANCES BILL
SECOND READING-DEBATE ADJOURNED

Hon. Marie-P. Poulin moved the second reading of Bill C-7,
respecting the control of certain drugs, their precursors and other
substances and to amend certain other Acts and repeal the
Narcotic Control Act in consequence thereof.
She said: Honourable senators, I am pleased to speak today on
Bill C-7, the controlled drugs and substances bill. This bill was
first introduced in the House of Commons during the previous
Parliament. Unfortunately. it died on the Order Paper at the close
of the session. This govemment recognized the need for better
controls over certain substances and believed it important for
Canadians that this legislation be reintroduced at the beginning
of its mandate.
When Bill C-7 was referred to the subcommittee of the
Standing Committee on Health in the House of Commons.
members of the subcommittee worked closely to ensure that the
views of a broad range of concerned individuals were carefully
considered. The subcommittee heard many witnesses and
examined the complexities of this legislation. There was
representation from health care providers. the legal profession,
law enforcement agencies, researchers, public advocacy groups
and other interested parties.
This bill demonstrates how consultation and cooperation have
produced a balanced piece of legislation which addresses the
concerns expressed. As a result. the subcommittee unanimously
supported this bill in its report. I am now urging all honourable
senators to support it.
Many substances we are dealing with here have strong medical
components. The prime aim of this bill is to make them available
to health professionals and their patients for legitimate medical
purposes. We also want to control these substances because in the
wrong hands, used in the wrong way, they can cause great harm
to Canadians, particularly young people and their families. while
damaging the social fabric of our great country.
Bill C-7 sharpens the tools that we can use to control the
production and distribution of high-risk preparations so that they
can be safely used as prescription drugs. Bill C-7 also recognizes
a positive approach to treatment programs for those who are
afflicted by drug addiction. It supports the availability of help
and appropriate treatment for those who want to get back their
health and resume a normal life.

[Translation]
In other words, the bill protects the rational use of some
controlled substances as medicines, while acting against the
illicit distribution of these same substances. It recognizes that
controlled drugs are indispensable and that their availability
should not be restricted or compromised.

Bill C-7 promotes the judicious use of medications by
indicating ways in which controlled drugs can be handled,
distributed and used. These substances are included in the
legislation to protect the health and safety of the Canadian
public, while allowing their use for medical purposes by the
people who need them.
On the other hand. these substances have a strong potential for
abuse. These substances are powerful. They have the power to do
good and also the power to do harm.
[En glish]
This bill brings together the Narcotic Control Act and parts of
the Food and Drugs Act to deal with controlled drugs and
substances and narcotic preparations. It is aimed at modernizing
existing procedures and controlling a wider range of substances.
It is therefore more comprehensive and flexible than the
legislation it supplants.
Honourable senators, the government has taken seriously the
concerns expressed by witnesses at the hearings of the
subcommittee of the House on this bill. as well as those put
forward by honourable members from all parties of the House of
Commons. Many of the witnesses who appeared before the
House subcommittee not only addressed Bill C-7 specifically but
wanted to put broader issues on the agenda. As a result.
honourable senators will be pleased to know the subcommittee
recommended in a separate report that the Standing Committee
on Health undertake a broad review of the policies surrounding
substance abuse. This review will provide an opportunity to
explore the political, social, legal and economic impacts of drug
abuse.
{Translation]

The central focus of Bill C-7 is therefore the health of
Canadians, although some of its provisions deal with judicial
measures and their enforcement. This reduces the risk that drugs
produced for legitimate purposes could be diverted into the
illegal street market. Canadians will have access, as before.
through their physician or pharmacist, Io whatever drugs they
need to treat their illnesses.
In concluding, I would like to point out that consultations on
this legislation have brought to the fore certain concerns about
the availability of medicinal herbs in Canada. It should be noted
that Bill C-7 does not in any way affect medicinal herbs or
homeopathic products. These products will continue to be
regulated by Parts I and Il of the Food and Drugs Act. Provisions
covering their use, distribution and sale will not change with the
coming into force of Bill C-7.
Honourable senators, we know that as legislators our task is
substantially to strike the appropriate balance to meet the needs
of Canadians. I believe that we have done so with this legislation.
Consequently, I urge all honourable senators to support this bill,
as I do today. I would like to thank all those who contributed
their comments. study and hard work.
On motion of Senator Kinsella. debate ajourned.

November 2, 1995

1995SENATE
DEBATES
November2.

2185
28

Senator Fairbairn: Who said that?

[En glish]

ELECTORAL BOUNDARIES
READJUSTMENT BILL, 1995
MOTION TO INSTRUCT LEGAL AND CONSTITUTIONAL AFFAIRS
COMMITTEE TO TABLE FINAL REPORT-DEBATE ADJOURNED

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government),
pursuant to notice of November 1, 1995, moved:
That it be an instruction of this House to the Standing
Senate Committee on Legal and Constîtutional Affairs that
no later than Wednesday, November 22, 1995, it present its
final report to the Senate on the Message from the House of
Commons, dated June 20, 1995, and on the motion of the
Honourable Senator Grahamn dated June 28, 1995, regarding
Bill C-69, An Act to provide for the establishrnent of
electoral boundaries commissions and the readjustment of
electoral boundaries.
She said: Honourable senators, this motion is an effort to get
the Senate moving again on Bill C-69, concerning electorai
boundaries readjustment. This is the second time in recent weeks
that I have used this procedure to try to encourage the progress of
important legislation into this chamber from cornmittee, so that
ahl senators in this house can have an opportunity to make
decisions on bis which involve critical time elernents or
deadlines. This exercise is in no way intended to curtail the
ability of a committee to do its work. Rather, it is an effort to get
that work done in a reasonable period of time.
Redistribution of boundaries of constituencies represented by
elected members of Parliament has been before this Parliarnent in
one way or another since March 18, 1994. The issue has gone
through the variations of two different buis and intensive study
by committees in both the House of Commons and the Senate. It
has been bounced back to the House of Commons twice by the
Senate with amendments. In spite of ail that, the issue bas
advanced nowhere at aIl.

Senator Lynch-Staunton: You said that some senators said
the bill does flot suit thern.
Senator Fairbairn: Senator Lynch-Staunton, 1 do flot believe
that Senator Lynch-Staunton: 1 arn sony to interrupt, but Senator
Fairbaimn said that some senators said the bill does flot suit them,
and 1 wondered which senators that would be.
Senator Fairbairn: I speak of my friend the Honourable
Leader of the Opposition, who does flot agree with the bill.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: That is something else.
Senator Fairbairn: Perhaps I should change the grammar of
the sentence for Senator Lynch-Staunton, Senator Murray and
others. to say that some senators opposite have declared that they
do flot agree with this bill, and therefore it should flot apply to
the next election, when candidates of ail parties wilI corne
forward to seek nominations.
Lt wouid seem that it is now the Senate which is deciding the
kind of process that will govemn the selection of boundaries in ail
the constituencies in every part of the country.
Sorne senators, and I will say this clearly again, obviously do
flot like Bill C-69. That is pretty clear.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: Quite right, too.
Senator Fairbairn: It sets out changes with which they do flot
agree. They want the process initiated Senator Murray: That is flot the issue.
Senator Fairbairn: - by the former govemnrent to prevail
for the next election. They are flot moved at ail by the fact that
Bill C-69 was essentially drafted by the House of Commons
Committee on Procedure and House Affairs in which a variety of
political parties are represented.

0 (154o)

Senator Lynch-Staunton: With reason.
Senator Fairbairn: The electoral dlock is ticking. Bill C-69 is
trapped, deep-sixed, if you will, in the Standing Senate
Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs. Under the guise
of a requirernent for even further study, this important legisiation
bas been buried in this committee without a meeting held or a
witness heard since July of this year.
Some senators opposite have declared that this bill does flot
suit them, and therefore it should flot apply for the next election.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: Who said that?

Senator Lynch-Staunton: That is right, let the ifimates run
the asylum.
Senator Fairbairn: Senator Lynch-Staunton rnay disapprove
of my grammar and implications. just as, 1 am quite sure,
members of the House of Commons would take offence at being
called ifimates in an institution.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: After what they say about us, that
is pretty mild.
Hon. Anne C. Cools: Honourable senators, please. If Senator
Lynch-Staunton has something to say, he should get to bis feet
and say it so we can aIl hear him.

chamber and as appointed legisiators are hardly in a position
to tell the members of the House of Commions how they
should proceed to draw the boundaries of their electoral
districts.

Senator Stewart: Please do flot encourage bini.
The Hon. the Acting Speaker: Senator Cools on a point of'
order.

Senator Cools: Honourable senators. Senator Lynch-Staunton
has this habit; he interJects repeatedly, and it seerns to be
condoned. There is a place in debate for every point of view.
especially Senator 1ynch-Staunton 's. However. Senator Fairbairn
bas the tloor; let ber speak.

1 know that honourable senators do flot relisb or like baving
those words trom former Senator Flynn quoted back to them.

Senator Lynch-Staunton: AIl right. I will pass that on to

Senator Fairbairn: They argue. and have argued, that the
context is different today and that those words were uttered a
long tirne ago and are flot relevant in current circumstances.
However. honourable colleagues. those words from Mr. Flynn
are as valid today as they were 10 years ago. We recognized
thern as such then. albeit perhaps reluctantly. and we do so now.
The principle rernains the sarne.

Senator Fritb.

Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators, it rnay strike a
casual observer as odd that senators at the moment appear to be
govemning the electoral process of CanadaSenator Doyle: And about tirne.

Senator Fairbairn: - particularly given the secure terrnis of
their own appointrnents. The same casual observer migbt wonder
wby. after ample opportunity to express their views, their
criticisrns. their constructive suggestions, their sober second
tbougbts, the Senate is still flot willing to permit this bill to corne
to a conclusion. one way or another. win or lose. Instead, the
legislation is in a state of suspended animation within the
Standing Senate Cornmittee on Legal and Constitutional Aftairs.
Witb that. the uncertainty and the confusion as to the boundaries
that will be in place f'or the next regular general election are
escalating by the day.
Everyone in this bouse knows. particularly those on this side
of the bouse, that the governrnent cannot get this bill out of the
committee because the government is in a rninority in the Senate,
and it is in a minority in each of the committees of the Senate.
However. the government still bas to keep trying. In its
judgrnent. the bill is an important piece of legislation. It is a higb
priority. flot just tor the goverinent. but also f'or the members of
the House of Commons wbo are urging us flot just to make a
decision

Senator Simard: Sorne Liberal members in the House.
Senator Fairbairn: - but to do so witb the guidance of the
precedence under wbicb the Senate bas permitted passage of
sucb legislation in the past.
1 will get to that point later, Senator Siinard.
1 arn speaking of' precedence guided by the words of our
former colleague the Honourable Jacques Flynn, a former
Conservative rninister of Justice and also at various times Leader
of the Governmient and Leader of' the Opposition in the Senate.
Mr. Flynn spoke for bis party. the former Conservative
governrnent. in December of 1985 at second rcading of
Bill C-74, which. some colleagues may rernember. was on
readjustrnent of electoral boundaries. He said:
I would say this is an area that alrnost exclusively concerns
the flouse of Comnmons. and 1 thinik that we as a non elected

Senator Lynch-Staunton: No. Repeat them in French. if you
want. Great opinion.

As we consider the motion 1 brought forward. we should recaîl
how mucb time. energy, and constructive effort bas already been
devoted in this Parliament to bring forward a new redistribution
process.
The current Electoral Boundaries Readlustment Act bas been
in existence since 1964. In the opinion of both this govemment
and the prior administration. the time bad corne to give the act a
rnucb needed reassessment and change. The current process.
based on the results of the 1991 census. had already been
interrupted by the previous govemrment in June of 1992 in order
to consider possible improvernents in light of the
recommendations of the Royal Commission on Electoral Reform
and Party Financing. However. the dissolution of Parliament iii
September of 1993 eut short the work of the special Flouse
cornrittee on electoral reform.
Following the election. the new government decided that that
work should be resumed. and resumed as quickly as possible. On
March 18, 1994. Bill C-18. the Electoral Boundaries
Readjustment Suspension Act of 1994. was introduced in the
House of Commons. Originally. Bill C-18 was to suspend the
current redistribution process for two years in order to provide
sufficient time for a comprebensive review by the House of
Commons Standing Committee on Procedure and House Affairs.

0

(J 550)

However, there was a public concern, and a concern in this
bouse as well. that a two-year suspension could prevent the
establishrnent of' new ridings based on the 1991 census in tirne
for the next regular general election. In May of 1994. the Senate
amended the bill to provide that the suspension would end on
February 6, 1995. and if a new process were flot yet in place. the
current process would resumne. The govemrment. as well as the
House of Commons, accepted the substance of that amendmnent.
The date. however. was moved back to June 22 of 1995 in order
to give the Commons committee and both Houses a realistic
tirnetable in which to conduet their work. The new date was
accepted by the Senate. Bill C-I18 received Royal Assent on
June 15. 1994.

SENATE DEBATES

November 2, 1995

The government, honourable senators, agreed to amend
Bill C-18 in the belief that the Senate's overriding concern would
be satisfied if the legislation was introduced quickly enough to
have new ridings in place in time for the next regular general
election. The government held up its end of the bargain and
proceeded rapidly. In the House of Commons, the Standing
Committee on Procedure and House Affairs heard witnesses al]
through the summer of 1994, thoroughly examined all aspects of
the Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Act, and submitted its
report, which included a draft bill, on November 25, 1994. The
report was concurred in by the House of Commons on February
14 of this year. Two days later, on February 16, the govemment
introduced Bill C-69, the Electoral Boundaries Readjustment
Act, 1995, which is based on that report. The legislation was
adopted by the House of Commons on April 25 of this year.
Honourable senators, having accomplished what it had
undertaken to do in the course of debates on Bill C-18, the
government was, admittedly, surprised by the reception accorded
to Bill C-69 when it arrived in the Senate on May 2 of this year.
The opposition majority's response to Bill C-69 was, in simple
terms, to "gut" the bill of its major innovations by amending its
key provisions and sending a message to the House of Commons
on June 8, 1995.
The House of Commons, apart from one amendment, rejected
the Senate's changes as being contrary to the consensus achieved
in the Standing Committee on Procedure and House Affairs on
most of the key aspects of the bill. On June 20, it conveyed its
views to the Senate.
Because of heavy legislative pressures, honourable senators,
the House of Commons came right to the edge of the June 22
provision in Bill C-18, which governed the future activity of the
current redistribution commissions, and it was right to the edge.
The Senate had three choices when it received the message
from the House on June 21, 1995. It could follow former Senator
Jacques Flynn's advice. Having made its views known to the
House of Commons where those views were respectfully
considered but, with one exception, not accepted, the Senate
majority could have, with reluctance, passed the bill. Failing that,
the Senate opposition majority could have declared that its
principles required it to maintain its opposition, insist on
amendments, send the bill back to the House, or defeat Bill C-69
outright. If that was not to their liking, the Senate opposition
majority could force the bill back to committee, and through the
process of neglect, virtually kill the new Senator Stewart: Indolence!
Senator Fairbairn: -

legislation through delay -

in other

words, simply refuse to proceed with further study. Clearly,
honourable senators, that is what has been happening since
June 21.
The first thing we witnessed were procedural challenges,
objecting to even having the message from the House of

2187

Commons brought forward for debate. When those objections
failed, Senator Murray adjourned the debate until the next day.
On that day, June 22, the opposition then brought forward the
argument that the bill had somehow "lapsed" and was no longer
valid. That view was vigorously rejected with, I believe,
compelling argument by this side of the house.
When an appeal to the Speaker of the Senate failed, the
opposition majority voted to refer the question of the validity of
the bill back to the Standing Senate Committee on Legal and
Constitutional Affairs. Senator Lynch-Staunton stated at that
time, in his usual colourful way:
...Senator Beaudoin will bring in expert advice which, I
have no doubt, will save us the embarrassment of having to
pass such a heinous bill as Bill C-69...
However, when the committee met. it was the opposition which
faced the embarrassment of failing to produce a single witness
who would lend any credence to the notion of a "lapsed" bill.
The government, on the other hand, had the benefit of the expert
testimony of Professor Beverley Baines, a law professor at
Queen's University. She gave evidence that Bill C-69 was in fact
valid, both legally and procedurally.
Honourable senators, having failed to gain any support for the
proposition that Bill C-69 was a dead letter, the opposition
majority on the committee, rather than approve a final report,
suddenly discovered new concerns that required attention. Five
new issues were raised, including determining the intention of
the government as it advanced Bill C-69 and investigating the
effect of the legislation on section 51 of the Constitution Act,
1867, which deals with the readjustment of representation in the
Commons following a decennial census.
On July 12, we were told by Senator Beaudoin:
There are very important issues which certainly deserve
further clarification.
And:
That is why the committee recommends that these issues be
examined in depth and that the Standing Committee on
Legal and Constitutional Affairs hold further hearings.
Honourable senators, that was almost four months ago.
Though our members of the committee were prepared to carry
on, not a single meeting has been held; not a single witness has
been called; not a single word of testimony has been heard on
these so-called very important issues.
I do not dispute Senator Beaudoin, that these are important
issues, certainly to the opposition. One can only ask, if these
issues were so very important, why did the committee not set
aside days in early September to deal with them?

Honourable senators. the continuing faihure to deal with
Bill C-69 is. as I said earlier. creating confusion. uncertainty and
concern about what boundaries will be in place for the next
election. That confusion and uncertainty can be resolved by
allowing the Senate to vote on Bill C-69 so that we can resolve
the matter now.
Yesterday. when 1 gave notice of my intention to move this
motion. Senator Lynch-Staunton remarked. and 1 quote with a
chuckle. "The Langevin Block speaks again."
Senator Lynch-Staunton: It sure does.
Senator Fairbairn: He was obviously implying that the
govemnment alone is impehling the urgency of this bill. 0f course
the goverfiment has a deep concern about the failure of this bouse
to complete its work on Bill C-69. It behieves the bill wil
produce a hetter. more open system of electoral boundary review
in this country and has taken its responsibility to try to have the
new process in place quickly for the next election.
Honourable senators may mock these statements. but the
goverfiment is deeply concerned that the process bas been set
aside since July with no attempt whatever hy the Senate
committee to continue its work and permit the Senate. and each
member in the Senate. to reacb a decision. This concern is also
sbared widely by members of Parliament in the House of
Commons. wbo have worked bard and carefully on this issue.
Their view was made known to tbe Standing Senate
Committee on Legal and Constitutional Aftairs on September 26
of tbis year wben the Cbairman of' the Standing Committee on
Procedure and flouse Affairs in the flouse of'Commons wrote to
Senator Beaudoin to express concerns about tbe Senate's
treatment of Bihl C-69. That letter represented tbe unanimous
view of the committee representatives of the Retorm Party, the
Bloc Québécois. the New Democratic Party and the Liberal
Party. Not surprisingly, neither member of the Conservative Party
was involved. but it was the unanimous view of the members of
that committee.
Tbe letter points out tbat Bill C-69 was prepared by tbe elected
members of Parliament and tbat '-it was the product of a long
process involving members of ail parties." It went on to say:
While not aIl members agreed with every provision in the
bill, tbey ail supported the process and wisb to preserve its
integrity.
The letter notes that tbe Senate bad exercised its
responsibilities in passing tbe bill witb suggested amendiments
and sending it back to the flouse of Commons for furtber
consideration. The letter also quotes - I wihh flot repeat it Senator Flynn. In tbe spirit oh' that quotation the letter goes on to
say:
The Standing committee on Procedure and flouse Affairs.
therelère. wishes to express unanimoushy its view that the
delays imposed hy certain miembers of' the Senate in respect

[Senaioi Vi-a

irn 1

of a bill dealing with electoral affairs of the flouse of'
Commons are contrary to developed parliamentary
precedent and principle.
Honourable senators. this concern and frustration is shared by
the govemment, which places a very higb priority on the bill. Iii
tact. it would flot have brougbt it forward if it did flot place a
high priority on the bill. 1 arn quite aware that this sense of
priority is flot shared by members of the~ opposition. Their
priority - and, 1 understand this aiso - is to protect the current
redistribution process. That was made perfectly clear in July by
Senator Lyncb-Staunton when he said:
What the govemnment should have done is, first, accept
our amendiments, the amendments of my friend's opposite,
altbough we do flot dispute their right flot to accept tbem. At
least they could say. "The current process is in place. It is
nearly completed. It will be completed. hopefully. in
November. Let Bill C-69 go into effect after that for the next
revision."* At least guarantee completion of the current
process.
On that same day Senator Murray said:
1 agree with the Leader of the Opposition that we sbould
allow the present process to go forward.
The govemment respects the opinions of' senators opposite. ht
certainly does flot share them. nor does it share their conclusions.
It understands their desire to protect a redistribution process that
was launched in the final days of their administration, but it also
believes that process to be flawed and in need of improvements.
Those improvements can be in place in time for the next
ehection if we take this opportunity to muvc forward with
Bill C-69. Why, honourable senators. sbould Canadians wait
as Senators Murray and Lynch-Staunton have suggested -until.
in effect, after the turn of the century before they can vote in an
election held on boundaries that reflect important improvements
to the redistribution system?
The purpose of my motion is two-fold: First, to give our
committee an opportunity and the encouragement to bold
meetings on the tive points raised in its report of July 1l. 1995:
and, second, to ensure that the findings of' the committee are
brougbt back to the Senate so that we can do our job quickhy and
conclusively.
Our Standing Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs
is a very important committee. Last month, Senator
Lynch-Staunton described bow the committee had been entrusted
with many important issues. That is the very nature of the work
of this committee. It is why many senators. including myself.
have found it fascinating. instructive, daunting and
time-consuming. I do flot dispute that the committee has had a
number of interesting and serious issues to deal with during this
session but. honourable senators. nothing prevents its members
l'rom meeting any day of the week in an effort to tackle and
complete the agenda.

November 2, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

The failure of the committee to meet on Bill C-69 since
July l1 is not as a result of lack of opportunity but as a result of
a lack of will on the part of the opposition to move the legislation
forward. Clearly, with their majority, they have the ability to do
that. We on this side also have a responsibility to try to give ail
senators in this chamber a chance to participate in the decision on
this legislation.
Honourable senators, Bill C-69 goes to the heart of how
Canadians exercise their electoral franchise. This chamber has
been dealing with it in total since April of 1994. It is time to
come to a conclusion, to move on to other matters, to lighten the
load for Senator Beaudoin, and that is the purpose of my motion.
Let the committee meet, let it complete its work, and then let ail
senators give theirjudgment on Bill C-69.
[Translation]

Hon. Marcel Prud'homme: Honourable senators, would you
allow me three quick questions, or just the first two if you prefer.
We are in the midst of a discussion about conflicts of interest.
A number of senators are discussing this great project about
conflicts of interest between members of Parliament and
senators. Does the honourable senator not believe that we have
before our eyes the perfect example of a conflict of interest
involving members of Parliament?
Second, I am totally prepared to respect my longtime friend,
Senator Flynn. Does the honourable senator not accept that
listening to Senator Flynn means the end of the Senate?
[English]

If on any subject, on any discussion, ultimately the Senate will
bow to the House of Commons, there is no raison d'être for the
Senate. I want to speak on this subject eventually.
Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators, I wish to comment
on Senator Prud'homme's remarks about Senator Flynn. Senator
Flynn, as everyone who served with Senator Flynn in this house
will know, was a most aggressive, articulate, erudite, engaged
senator. There is no way that Senator Flynn would have said
things according to my honourable friend's interpretation of his
remarks. He was speaking to the particular issue before the
Senate with regard to electoral boundaries. Certainly, no one took
a second place to Senator Flynn in the vigour, enthusiasm and
articulation he brought to his battles in this house and the other
place.
His remarks were directed, as quoted, to this particular issue. I
would just make that point to my honourable friend.
Senator Prud'homme: They do not refer to the conflict of
interest faced by members of the House in dealing with their own
future. There is no doubt about that.
9 01610>>

Senator Fairbairn: Senator Prud'homme, who was an
experienced member of that chamber. will know that such

2189

discussions have gone on, back and forth, for many years. They
will continue to do so. That is not what is before the Senate here.
Before the Senate is a bill which has been brought forward with
an almost unprecedented amount of consultation on the other
side, and we on this side have sent it back. We have amended it.
We amended the other bill. We have done our job.
The purpose of this motion is to say, "Let's finish the job and
enable ail senators in this house to give their opinion through
their vote on the issue."
[Translation]

Hon. Pierre Claude Nolin: Before adjournment of the debate
is proposed, I would like to ask a question to the government
leader in the Senate.
In view of the fact that the minister gave us a detailed
description of aIl the events that led to the consideration of this
bill, would it not be appropriate for her to tell us the exact date
the current process, which had been suspended by Bill C-18 and
which now is following its usual course, will take effect? When
wili the electoral maps legally come into effect? Could the
minister answer that?
[English]

Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators, I believe that the
petitions for change are still under consideration on the other
side, and they have indicated November 30 as the date when they
hope to have that review completed.
Senator Nolin: Does that mean that those maps will be
officially legal by that date?
Senator Fairbairn: Not necessarily. I do not know whether
they will have completed their review by that date. That is the
date they have before them at the moment.
On motion of Senator Nolin, debate adjourned.
BUSINESS OF THE SENATE
ADJOURNMENT

Leave having been given to revert to Government Notices of
Motion:
Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourable senators, I was asked to clarify some
of the orders which may be before the Senate next week. I have
already mentioned that we would have second reading of
Bill C-7. We have heard from the sponsor of the bill already.
There will be a speaker from the other side. Obviously, we will
have further debate on Bill C-69, the electoral boundaries bill.
I understand that there will be more speakers today and next
week on Senator MacDonald's motion relating to the report of
the committee on the Pearson Airport Agreements. There are
numerous other items on the Order Paper: reports of committees.

motions and inquiries. It is not clear what other items may corne
from the House of' Commons today. tomorrow and Monday. 0f
course, as outiined earlier. on Tuesday we will be dealing with
Buis C-61 and C-103 at second reading. So the agenda is quite
fulli.
The ruies. of course, provide that we sit five days a week. We
have sat three days this week. 1 am proposing that we sit three
days next week, and perhaps four if it is absoiuteiy necessary. If
wc do not have an adjoumrment motion today, in accordance with
our ruies we wili be sitting tornorrow. Friday. at nine o'ciock in
the mrning.
I cannot guarantee absoiutely that we wiII not sit next
Thursday if we corne back Monday night. Indeed. it would he
highly presumptuous of me to give any guarantees under the
circumstances. I can say that if we deal efficiently and
expeditiously with whatever business is before the Senate. we
couid adjourn on Wednesday.
[Translation]
Honourabie Senators, with leave of the Senate and
notwithstanding mile 58(I)h). I move:
That when the Senate adjourns today. it do stand
adjoumned until Monday next, November 6, 1995. at eight
o'clock in the evening.

Hon. Noël A. Kinsella (Acting Deputy Leader of the
Opposition): Honourable senators. 1 wonder whether my
colleague might tell us a bit about the week following. that ks. the
week of November 13. Is there some explanation?! 1 arn talking
about Monday.
As you know, some senators will be having meetings in their
ridings on Bill C-68.
[En glish]

Senator Graham: It is rny understanding, honourable
senators, that that is a pariiarnentary break. It is a parliamentary
break, in the true sense, only for the other chamber. However.
there has been agreernent that. unless sorte very unusuai
circurnstances intervene. we would iollow the pariiamentary
calendar. There have been times when we have not donc so. For
instance, the House of Commons adjourned for the summer
break on June 23. Because we stiil had legisiation before us. we
sat until the middle of July. We sit when it is necessary.
I see nothing on the calendar at this moment which wouid
necessitate the Senate sitting during that week. As a matter of
fact. there has been an understanding that those who wanted to
hold hearings on Bill C-68 in various regions of the country
wouid do so that week. Therefore. uniess something very unusual
were to happen, I believe that we would Ibilow the pariiamentary
caiendar as it is before us at the presenit time. and indeed take a
break at that tirne.

1 Seniios

Giihai

1

Senator Kinsella: 1 want to thank my honourable friend forthat clarification. By way of recapitulation. my understanding is
that we will sit next Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday and.
unless there are extraordinary circurnstances. we wiil flot be back
Thursday nor the following week, which is the traditional
parliamentary break period.

Senator Graham: As 1 have said. 1 cannot give guarantees.
However, with the cooperation of aIl sides of the house. that is
what we are airning for.
The Hon. the Acting Speaker: Honourabie senators. you
have heard the motion. Is it your wish to adopt the motion'?
Motion agreed to.
9

il(,2o)

PEARSON AIRPORT AGREEMENTS
CONSIDERATION 0F SECOND REPORi 0F SPECIAL
COMMIT1EE-DEBATE CONTINUED

On the Order:
Resuming the debate on the consideration of the Second
Report of' the Special Cornmittee of' the Senate on thc
Pearson Airport Agreements, <Address to Ris Excellency
the Governor General requesting documents), presented in
the Senate on Tuesday. October 17. 1995.
And on the motion in amendrnent of' the Honourable
Senator Kirby, seconded by the Honourable Senator Corbin.
That the Report be not now adopted but that it be
amended by deleting the iast paragraph thereof and
repiacing it with the following:
Therefore your Comrnittee recornmends that an inquiry
be made of the Right Honourabie Kim Camnpbell as to
whether she is prepared to authorize the release of
Subrnissions to the Treasury Board. dated August 1993,
that relate to the redeveiopment of Pearson
Air-port.-(Honourable Senator Mitrrav.ý, PC.)

Hon. Duncan J. Jessiman: Honourabie senators, I rise to

speak to, the motion by Senator MacDonald for the adoption of
the second report of the Senate Cornmittee on the Pearson
Airport Agreements requesting documents, and in respect of'
which Senator Kirby rnoved an arnendrnent.
The documents we are seeking -and which are the subýject
matter of this cornrittee's second report - are three submissions
to the Treasury Board and one decision ietter ot the Treasury
Board of August 1993. If these Treasury Board documents were
those of the prescrnt goverrnent, it is my opinion that they wouid
he availabie to the committee because they do not involve
security matters or international allai rs.

November 2, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

It is also my opinion that, even if the pertinent documents did
involve security matters or international affairs. as a strict legal
matter the committee would have the right to demand to sec them
because the committee is the final arbiter in deciding whether it
receives such documents.
These documents involve advice of certain senior civil
servants to the Privy Council respecting a commercial
transaction and, therefore, should be available to the committee.
The committee receives its power from the Constitution Act of
1867, section 18; the Parliament of Canada Act, section 4; and
the Rules of the Senate, rule 90, which I shall read, in part:
A standing committee shall be empowered to inquire into
and report upon such matters as are referred to it from time
to time by the Senate, and shall be authorized to send for
persons, papers and records, whenever required...
In Diane Davidson's paper - presented to the Joint
Committee of the House of Commons and Senate on the Scrutiny
of Regulations on November 16, 1994, and referred to by Senator
MacDonald when he spoke on this matter - she advised that she
was in agreement with the Ontario Law Reform Commission in
its 1981 report on witnesses before legislative committees. That
report dealt with legislative committees because it was an
Ontario commission. However, Ms Davidson said that it also
related to committees of the House of Commons and the Senate.
It was her position that civil servants and ministers are in the
same position as any other witness. In theory, they can be
compelled to testify on any issue, answer any question or
produce any document. There is legally no guaranteed immunity
from Parliament's broad power to call for information and,
therefore, no special status is conferred.
The Law Reform Commission stated:
We are of the view that, as a matter of law, every witness
before a legislative committee, including a civil servant,
public servant and a minister of the Crown, is now and
ought to remain subject to the applicable provisions of the
Legislative Assembly Act.
It is important to note that just around the time of the Law
Reform Commissions report in 1981, the federal govemment
amended the Canada Evidence Act by adding section 39. The
wording is relevant to the matter we are considering because it
deals with information that the govemment certifies "constitutes
a confidence of the Queen's Privy Council."
Section 39(1) of the Canada Evidence Act states:
39(1) Where a minister of the Crown or the Clerk of the
Privy Council objects to the disclosure of information
before a court, person or body I emphasize the word "body" because. at the time when I read
this, it was my view that our committee might be such a body.
- with jurisdiction to compel the production of information
by certifying in writing that the information constitutes a

2191

confidence of the Queen's Privy Council for Canada,
disclosure of the information shall be refused without
examination or hearing of the information by the court,
person or body.
If we were other than what we are, a Senate committee, if we
were a court, or if we were some other person or inquiry, this
section would enable the Privy Council to certify that this was
something that they were not, and would not be, required to
disclose.
The section goes on to state:
(2) For the purpose of this subsection (1), "a confidence
of the Queen's Privy Council for Canada" includes, without
restricting the generality thereof, information contained
1in-

and I will only read the part that is relevant (b) a discussion paper the purpose of which is to present
background explanations, analyses of problems or policy
options to Council for consideration by Council in
making decisions;
Certainly, three of these Treasury Board documents, being the
submissions, would be included in that wording. Whether or not
the letter, the decision, which was really a Treasury Board
decision of the ministers, may not. The letter is not the important
thing, as far as the committee is concerned; it is those
submissions.
If the term "body" mentioned above could be interpreted, as I
thought it could, to include a Senate committee, then this
legislation would be relevant. However, although the word
"body" in this section has not been judicially interpreted, other
words in federal statutes have, and I have been advised that there
is no doubt that the courts would hold that the word "body" in
section 39 of the Canada Evidence Act does not include a Senate
committee. The reason for this is that the power of the committee
is derived from our Constitution, and cannot be reduced by mere
federal legislation.
I say, however, if the act did apply - which it does not - to
the Senate and to this committee, the documents would be
available to the committee because subsection 4(b)(i) of section
39(2) provides that subsection (1), which I read into the record,
does not apply in respect of a discussion paper if the decisions to
which the discussion paper relates have been made public. There
is no doubt that the decision to proceed with the Pearson airport
contracts was made public.
These Treasury Board documents are not documents of the
present govemment - or at least they claim they are not their
documents. The documents certainly were not produced during
their tenure. Those documents were provided to the previous
govemment's Treasury Board by its Treasury Board secretariat.
the secretariat being the senior civil servants who advise the
political cabinet ministers.

Some may argue that these particular Treasury Board
documents are subject to a convention dating back to the years of
Prime Minister Mackenzie King. that a government should not
- and does not - look at documents that are considered the
property of a previous government. and that those documents
should remain confidential to the ministers of that government.
However, it can be argued strenuously that although there is such
a convention. it does not cover the Treasury Board's submissions,
as Senator Kirby implied in his submission to the Senate on
Tuesday last.
I have read several letters passing from one government to
another, dating back to Prime Minister Saint-Laurent. I requested
and received late this aftemoon a copy of a letter that was written
by the Clerk of the Privy Council dated November 3, 1993. in the
French version, and approved by Jean Chrétien on November 3.
The English version that I have received as a copy to the Right
Honourable Kim Campbell is not dated. but it was accepted by
her. It is obvious that the govemment of Kim Campbell which
was outgoing and the government of Jean Chrétien which was
incoming agreed that certain documents are the property of the
previous government. However, I do not see where these
Treasury Board documents would be included in those
documents.

Let us assume for the moment that the convention applies, as
Senator Kirby has asked us to do. I do not think it does. I think
the government should give them to the committee. It is the
unanimous view of the committee that such documents should be
available to the committee as it is dealing with a matter that is in
the public interest. The only dispute is as to the procedure that
should be taken in respect of those documents.
I believe it was Senator Stewart who said in committee. "We
agree with you. We should get the documents, but you are
putting the cart before the horse."
First, I argue that the convention does not apply and that,
because these documents are not cabinet documents per se, they
should be given to the committee by the present government
without any request being made by the committee of the Right
Honourable Kim Campbell to release the documents, as Senator
Kirby suggests.
The majority on the committee is saying that if the convention
does apply - and in my humble opinion it does not - then it is
between the present govemment and the previous government.
something to which this committee is not a party. There is no
privity between the Senate committee and the previous
govemment, whereas there is between the two governments. No
committee members voted against the motion that outlined how
the committee should proceed. The Liberal senators chose to
abstain.
After hearing Senator Kirby on Tuesday, October 31. and
giving further consideration to this matter, I am convinced that
Senator MacDonald's motion is the correct way for the Senate to
proceed. The only case that I could find - and now I am
assuming the convention does apply - was one in which a

[ Senator J.essiian

1

commission of inquiry chaired by Justice David C. MacDonald
in 1979, inquiring into a matter concerning the RCMP, requested
certain documents of a previous government that were protected
by the convention to which I have referred. In that case an
exception was made to the convention and practice in Canada
governing access to records of cabinet and cabinet committee
meetings. A motion on the recommendation of the Prime
Minister passed by the committee of the Privy Council stated
that:
the Commissioners shall be granted access to the minutes of
any Cabinet or Cabinet Committee meeting emanating from
the Ministry of the Right Honourable John G. Diefenbaker
only with the concurrence of the said Right Honourable
John G. Diefenbaker it having first been communicated by
him in writing to the Secretary to the Cabinet:
The commissioners were not told to get Mr. Diefenbaker's
consent before the government gave its consent to the release of
the documents. The government passed the resolution to release
the documents subject to the government receiving
Mr. Diefenbaker's consent in writing so to do. That is exactly for
what Senator MacDonald's resolution asks.
To get to the absurdity of the whole matter of the govemment
refusing to release the documents to this committee. let us
remember that if the government thinks the convention applies,
then it is up to them to pass the resolution or to ask the previous
prime minister, because it was their government that made this
contract with the other government.
Let us remember that the document was advice to the previous
government in August 1993, immediately prior to that
govemment's passing a Treasury Board resolution on August 27.
1993 authorizing the Minister of Transport to execute the
necessary documents to complete the airport transaction. This
was before an election was called. No politician from August 27.
1993, until the 110 documents required to conclude the
transaction were delivered on October 7. 1993, made any
decision whatsoever as to the content of any of those
110 documents. Everything was donc by the civil servants and
the legal advisors to the government at the time because there
had already been an agreement made. It had only to be
documented.
These confidential documents which the committee is
requesting, which are in excess of 200 pages, were given to
Robert Nixon and his advisors sometime between October 29,
1993. and the first week of November 1993. Technically. it is
possible that they were given before November 4. in which case
one might argue that the old administration was still in place.
However, a transition team had taken over between October 25 to
November 4. After November 4 - and we cannot be clear as to
when these documents got across - a 200-page document
marked "Secret" from the Department of Transport was delivered
at the request of the incoming Prime Minister. He was the one
who said to the people at Transport. "Give them whatever is
necessary."
Hon. John B. Stewart: That particular document is not
specified.

November 2, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

The Hon. the Acting Speaker: Honourable senators, I should
inform Senator Jessiman that his allotted time bas expired. He
may continue with the consent of honourable senators.

the Treasury Board staff would not be regarded as a Privy
Council document.
0

Is it agreed that the honourable senator be allowed to
continue?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Senator Jessiman: Honourable senators, Robert Nixon and
his advisors used parts of these documents in arriving at their
conclusion to cancel the contracts. The same documents were
also leaked to a reporter from The Ottawa Citizen who also used
part of the documents to justify the Nixon report.

2193

(16<4o)

Senator Jessiman: Honourable senators, I did not say that. I
said I do not think it comes within the convention, because it
gives a list of documents. It says that the meaning of the term
"cabinet papers," while not precisely defined, has generally been
understood to include such documents as cabinet committee
agendas, memoranda, discussion papers, minutes, reports and
guidelines, briefing notes for ministers related to the above
papers, and correspondence between ministers and related
documents.

What has happened in this case is that Robert Nixon and his
legal advisors, as well as the reporter, Greg Weston, have taken a
number of the statements in these documents out of context. The
statements made by Weston have all been refuted in a
memorandum prepared by William Rowat, a senior official of
Transport Canada, and published in a newspaper in October of
1993. Notwithstanding the answers given by Mr. Rowat, there
continues to be the suspicion that unless the committee sees the
200-page document used by Mr. Nixon. his advisors and Greg
Weston, the improper view which the newspaper reports have left
will continue to linger in the minds of some.

I suggest that the document prepared by the senior bureaucrats
to advise in this particular case does not come within that
definition. However, if it does, I am saying that it is up to this
govemment, if they think it applies, to pass the resolution we are
asking to be passed. The government can then decide. They will
either ask the Right Honourable Kim Campbell for their release
or they will not. It is up to them.

As this is a matter that is important to the integrity of the
government, both the previous government and the present
government, the committee should have the opportunity to see
these documents to enable it to complete its work and make
whatever comments it decides are appropriate.

The language you quoted uses the expression "cabinet." They
really mean the Privy Council. As I understand it, the Treasury
Board is a committee of the Privy Council.

The importance of withholding production on the basis of
public interest must be weighed against the public interest in the
proper administration of a Senate committee attempting to get at
the truth of the matter referred to it. In view of the facts as I have
outlined them, there is no question that the committee should be
given the documents requested. It is in the public interest to do so
and no one will be prejudiced thereby.
I urge all members of the Senate to vote in favour of the
motion of Senator MacDonald to adopt the second report of the
Special Committee of the Senate on the Pearson Airport
Agreements. If we are to vote first on the amendment by Senator
Kirby, then I urge honourable senators to vote against it.
Senator Stewart: Honourable senators, I understood Senator
Jessiman to say that, in his opinion, the document prepared by

Senator Stewart: I understand that. I was raising a narrow
point on what you dealt with before you got to your "if."

The point on which I wanted enlightenment was whether a
document prepared for a committee of the Privy Council would
be covered by the rule with regard to privilege, but you do not
seem to wish to be emphatic or categorical on that point. I am not
being critical. I just wonder if you have any evidence one way or
the other.
Senator Jessiman: I can only give you the act they passed.
Let us assume we are a court or an inquiry. We could not look at
the document until the decision in respect of those papers was
made public. Well, they made it public. They said, "We are going
to sign the documents." There is a contract here. It is public.
Those documents are now available to anyone.
On motion of Senator Kinsella, debate adjourned.
The Senate adjourned until Monday, November 6, 1995,
at 8 p.m.

THE SENATE
Monday, November 6, 1995
The Senate met at 8:00 p.m., the Speaker in the Chair.

[Translation]

Prayers.

Mr. Rabin was a friend of' peace. a friend of democracy and a
friend of Canada.

THE LATE YITZHAK RABIN
TRIBUTES TO FORMER PRIME MINISTER 0F ISRAEL

As Canadians. we have a responsibility to endorse his vision.
because we want peaceful and demnocratic solutions to the mosi
heartbreaking problems.
[En glish]

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, I risc tonight to add my voice 10 those of ail
Canadians who have expressed their shock, outrage and deep
sorrow at the assassination of Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak
Rabin, made even more unbelievable by the fact that il occurred
during the course of a rally for peace.
In the short hours since his death. there has been an outpouring
of grief' and condolences for his family's loss.. for his nation's
loss. and also for our loss. for he was that rare kind of person
whose courage and conviction made him a visionary world
statesman, a leader among leaders.
He has been eulogized over the last two days as a tough soldier
who fought for peace. a war hero turned peacemaker. a hawk
who soared like a dove. He was ail that and much more. His tight
for a lasting peace in his historically troubled region is the legacy
he leaves t0 the world. One cannot forget his eloquent words
spoken on the lawn at the' White House in 1993, in the company
of' President Clinton and Yasser Arafat, an old foc but new
partner in the cause of Middle East peace. Mr. Rabin said on that
day:
We, the soldiers who have returned from battles stained
with blood. we who have seen our relatives and triends
killed before our eyes.. We who have come from a land
wherc parents bury their children .... Wc say today in a loud
and clear voice: Enough of blood and tears. Enough.
Sadly, honourable senators, it was not enough. For aIl of us.
the fragility of the peace process in the Middle East was sharply
underlined by the violent tragedy that unfolded on Saturday at a
massive gathering for peace in the streets of Jerusalem. We hope
and pray that his words will continue t0 inspire and move those
who follow him.
Israel's Acting Prime Minister, Shimon Peres, who has been a
colleague and companion in arms with Mr. Rabin in his cause.
has afirmed his commitments to those words of 1993 and to the
path t0 peace which they represent. We can do no less. The
grcatest and most poignant tribute wc can offer in the tragic
death of' Yitzhak Rabin is to plcdge our support and dedication 10
his vision aI an endurinc, solution in the Middle East.

Hon. Leo E. Koîber: Honourable senators, My own
connection with the state of Israel goes back a long way. My
wife's parents and family came fromn Palestine. and our son lives
there as a citizen of Israel. As a matter of fact. he was on the
platform with Mr. Rabin during the peace rally on Saturday, and
shook his hand approximately four minutes before he was shot.
Thus. the tragedy came home to me and was certainly felt very
deeply. not only by the world, but by my family.
Yitzhak Rabin was the least predictable of peacemakers, an
old soldier with an instinctive distrust of the kind of bright young
intellectuals who contrived the Oslo breakthrough with the
Palestine Liberation Organization. He visibly blanched when
President Bill Clinton coaxed him 10 shake hands with Yasser
Arafat on the White House lawn in September of 1993.
As Prime Minister for the first time trom 1974 10 1977. Rabin
could hardly steel himself to utter the word "Palestinian". He and
his defence minister in that adnministration. Shimun Peres -who
is one of my oldest and closest friend in the world - established
the first Jewish settiements planted among Arab towns and
villages on the spine of Palestine. As detence minister in the
1984-90 national unity govemment, Rabin ordered his troops to
use whatever means necessary to stem the Intifada uprising.

9

10
I2

Yet on the night of his death at the hands of a lone Isracli
gunman. Rabin was singing "Shir Hashalom," the Hebrew hymn
of peace, with 100,000 supporters of Peace Now. Lt was, Peres
said afterwards. probably the first lime in his life that the
croaky-voiced Rabin had sung in public.
His farewell message had a ring of Martin Luther King's "I
Have a Dream." His government. he said. had decided to give
peace a chance. "I was a military man for 27 years." he said. 1~
waged war as long as there was no chance for peace. 1 believe
there is now a chance for peace. a great chance. and -we must
make the most of it."
What wrought the transformation was the realization that
Isracl could not batter mbt submission the children and mothers
of' thic Intitada without compromising its own humanity and
alienatin- the civilizcd world. with which lsrael identifies itsellf.

November 6, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

As early as the 1988 election campaign, Rabin and Peres
argued that Israel could not go on ruling the large, hostile Arab
minority if it wanted to remain a Jewish and a democratic state.
The only alternative was - and I hate to use the word separation: a line on the ground with Israelis on one side and
Palestinians on the other. To the end, Rabin refused to
acknowledge that his policy might spawn a Palestinian state.
The 1988 electoral stalemate denied the two labour leaders an
opportunity to put "territory for peace" to the test, but after their
victory in June 1992, Peres, as foreign minister under Rabin's
premiership, convinced himself and his chief that Arafat was
ready for a symmetrical compromise. Isolated and impoverished
by the historic miscalculation of siding with Saddam Hussein in
the 1991 Gulf War, the leader of the PLO had finally become a
partner for peace.
It was Peres, always the more imaginative and restless of the
two, who selected and backed the freelance diplomats for the
Oslo back channel. However, without Rabin checking every
detail and reining in their enthusiasm, the deal would never have
jelled. Without Rabin, elected on the platform of peace with
security, the Israeli public would not have acquiesced.
Despite their history of bitter personal rivalry, Rabin and Peres
were an extraordinary team. Both in their seventies, they
recognized that a solution to a century-old conflict between Jew
and Arab was indeed attainable. This was their last chance, and
they did not intend to let mutual recrimination get in their way.
Nor would they be deflected by the enemies of peace, Arab or
Jewish. After every Islamic suicide bombing, a grim-faced Rabin
announced to the television cameras that negotiations would
continue. Echoing a celebrated phrase of Israel's first Prime
Minister, David Ben-Gurion, he said that he would "fight the
terrorists as if there were no peace process, and fight for peace as
if there were no terrorism."
Rabin was equally stubborn in defying a campaign of
unprecedented vilification by the Israeli right and its Jewish
paymasters abroad who branded him a traitor and an alcoholic,
and portrayed him in the Nazi uniform or Arab keffiyeh
headdress. To their enduring shame, leaders of the parliamentary
opposition were slow to disown these excesses. Even when his
progressive majority was reduced last month to a single
mercenary MP, Rabin drove on. "A majority of one is still a
majority," he insisted.
Foreign critics accused Rabin of dictating a humiliating peace
to a vulnerable Arafat. However, Israel, too, was paying a price,
not just in territory but in personal security. By finely calculating
when to accelerate the peace process and when to slow it down,
Rabin stopped the pragmatic centre of Israeli public opinion from
joining the settler ideologues at the barricades.
His tenacity won Israel a peace treaty with Jordan to match
that which Menachem Begin signed with Egypt in 1979. It
banished the kind of isolation that had dogged Israel in
international fora for 47 years. Israeli commentators were quick
to notice that when Rabin addressed the jubilee General

2195

Assembly of the United Nations last month, no Arab or Third
World delegation walked out. As it happened, the Syrians and
Libyans were not there.
Yitzhak Rabin was bom in Jerusalem on March 1, 1922. His
life and career marched step by step with the struggle for and
consolidation of the Jewish state in the biblical homeland. His
father, Nehemia, a working-class Ukrainian Jew who had
emigrated to the United States, arrived in Palestine in 1918 as a
volunteer for the Jewish legion, fighting to help the Allies oust
Turkey from the Levant. His Russian-born mother, Rosa, the
daughter of an Orthodox rabbi, immigrated with a Zionist uncle.
In the best pioneering tradition, Rabin studied at an
agricultural school, then joined the Palmach, the elite
professionals of the Haganah Jewish defence force, in the
struggle for independence. During the 1948 Arab-Israeli war, he
commanded a battalion that kept open the lifeline between Tel
Aviv and Jerusalem.
He reached the peak of his army career as chief of the general
staff in Israel's resoundingly victorious Six-Day War in 1967.
Rabin collapsed with nervous exhaustion on the eve of the war,
but after two days' rest he returned to his post. Moshe Dayan, the
flamboyant defence minister, seized the international limelight,
but the more taciturn Rabin was credited with the planning and
control that expanded Israel's borders to the Suez Canal, the
Jordan River, and the Golan Heights.
After retiring from the military at the end of 1967, Rabin was
appointed ambassador to Washington. He scorned the frivolities
of the cocktail circuit, but established a highly productive
working relationship with the Nixon administration.
He returned to Israel in 1973 and ran for election on the
Labour ticket in the elections in December of that year. Israelis
welcomed him as a leader with a record of success who was
untainted by the almost disastrous errors that exposed Israel to
invasion in the Yom Kippur war. In April 1974, he defeated
Shimon Peres in their first contest for the party leadership.
In 1992, the Labour Party concluded that they needed to be led
by Mr. Rabin because his moral authority could carry the day. It
worked, but by a dizzyingly precarious margin. The peace
process was the improbable outcome. In the tradition of the
Palmach and the Israel defence forces, Rabin insisted on leading
from the front. Just before 10 p.m. in Tel Aviv Square on
Saturday, he paid for it with his life. Shalom, Yitzhak.
Hon. Erminie J. Cohen: Honourable senators, I rise tonight
to express the sadness and grief we share with the people of
Israel and all the people in the world who believe in peace.
I watched the events following the assassination of Prime
Minister Yitzhak Rabin for the past two days with great emotion.
The attendance at the funeral of so many world leaders - the
attendance for the first time of President Clinton of the United
States; President Mubarak of Egypt; King Hussein of Jordan; and
Mr. Yasser Arafat - and the sight of so many Arab headdresses
in the assembly were significant and made a powerful statement
to the world. It showed the changing face of the Middle East.

The fact tbat tbe assassination of Prime Minister Rabin was tbe
first sucb event in the life of Israel was difficuit enougb. but tbat
the Prime Minister was killed by an lsraeli. another Jew, for
political reasons was shocking; yet onc feht at the limie some
sense of relief tbat the assassin was not a Palestinian, as damiage
bo the peace process would bave been inevitable. The assassin
was a religious fanatic. intluenced by the ideological seeds of
batred and the rejection of peace.
Mr. Rabin changed the course of bistory in the firsî
breakthrougb with the Palestinian people. It was said tbat bis life
paralleled the bistory of bis people. tbe bislory that be lived. He
was aI the centre of many of Israel's turning points. boîb as a
soldier and as a diplomat.
Mr. Rabin typitied tbe Israeli sabra, the fruit of Israel - tougb
and prickly on tbe outside. and tender and sweeî on the inside.
He bad tbe respect of bis people and walked a very lonely road,
one be was prepared 10 walk if il led to a peaceful conclusion.
0

(2020)

Honourable senators. the international communiîy bas suffered
a greal loss witb bis deatb, and if will leave a buge void in tbe
Middle East. Il is ironic tbat a man wbo started his career as a
soldier died for peace.
Honourable senators, we know that terrorism. ignorance and
religious fanaticism are the true enemies of peace in the Middle
East. We wisb Sbimon Peres. Acting Prime Minister of Israel, the
leaders of tbe Arab states and Arab and Jew alike tbe strengtb.
courage and understanding as they continue on tbe road to peace,
remembering aI ail limes tbe words Yitzbak Rabin uttered in
Washington not so long ago. Ibat tbis land of milk and boney
sbould not be a land of blood and tears.
Hon. Jerahmiel S. Grafstein: Honourable senators. for over
3,000 years. not far trom the blood-drencbed stones of Jerusalem.
anotber great warrior leader, striving t0 unite bis people and to
provide tbem witb securiîy and peace with Ibeir neigbbours,
wrote tbese words. wbicb are now customarily recited aI a bouse
of bereavement. Il is the 23rd Psalm.

Honourable senators, we are told tbat King David was the
greatest of God's beloved because David neyer lost faitb. David
was humble. He neyer blamed Cod for the failures of man or
bimself.
Yitzhak Rabin. may he rest in peace. was born in Jerusalem.
the City of David. Farmer, soldier, general. strategist. politician.
diplomat. statesman. peacemaker - he played a pivotai and
leading role in each of the many wars that have engulfed Israel
since the founding of that state in 1948. He became ils youngest
Prime Minister. the eigbtb Prime Minister. and the tirst to be born
in Israel. As Senator Cohen said. Yitzhak Rabin was a "sabra",
and the word "sabra", as she pointed out. is a desert cactus. tougb
and prickly on the onîside and soft on the inside. This symbol
personified Yitzhak Rabin's life and personality and, indeed.
retiects the personalities of many of the citizens in Israel.
Honourable senalors. 1 first met Yitzhak Rabin over 20 years
ago. just after he became Minister of Defence. We met in his
smail office located in a temporary wooden building in the
Defence compound in Tel Aviv for wbat was scheduled bo be a
very brief introductory exchange. At his insistence, this brief
exchange tumned into a dialogue Iasting longer than two hours.
Almost as if he was thinking out loud. he insisted on
painstakingly reviewing the difficult options and thc painful
choices facing Israel in its search for securily. 1 simply became
enthralled by bis precise grasp of the myriad issues. the minute
detail and the knowledge ibat he had at bis fingertips. ranging
from the strategic to the tactical, from the public psychology to
the privale anxiebies. 1 learned then wbat a meticulous thinker
and a brilliant planner be was.
We know that God, like genius. lies hidden in detail. In that
sense. Rabin was a genius, for be understood, as few other
politicians did, that bebind every public pronounicement, behind
every public policy, a sure grip of detail was essential for public
comprebension and ultimately for public consensus and
acceptance. He seemed motivated at that time by an obsession.
since be empbasized that there was a zero-sum margin for error
confronting Israel's security. "Simply no room," be said, "for
ill-considered ideas or shallow policies."

Tbe Lord is my sbepberd-, 1 sball not want.
He maketb me 10 lie down in green pastures; be leadetb me
beside tbe still waters.
He resîoretb my soul; be leadeth me in tbe patbs of
rigbteousness for bis name's sake.
Yea, tbough 1 walk tbrougb tbe valley of the sbadow of
deatb, 1 will fear no evil: for tbou art witb me; tby rod and
tby staff tbey comièrt me.
Thou preparesî 10 table before me in tbe presence of mine
enemies; tbou anointed my bead witb oul: my cup runnetb
over.
Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me aIl the days of
my life:. and 1 will dwell in tbe bouse ot the Lord forever.

1 Senaloi Cohlei 1

Honourable senators, Israel, at its widest point. covers a
shorter distance than the boundaries that separate Greater
Metropolitan Toronto. A bair's breadtb separates Israel from ils
neigbbours without, and a blink of an eye from its neighbours
within. Yitzhak Rabin undersîood and lived this reality, and so be
painstakingly and patiently analyzed eacb brick necessary t0
support and ensure the security and ultimately tbe peace for bis
people.
As lime wenl on, I glanced at my watcb. not wisbing to intrude
furtber on his tigbt scbedule. Yet, he seemed to have aIl the time
in the world. 1 was puzzled. quite frankly, wby be spent so mucb
of bis precious lime on me. for tbougb interestcd in Israel and its
security. 1 beld no public office or influential position at the lime.
Yel be seemned anxious for mie. and 1 assu med countless otbers
he encountered. to understand the complexity of' the issues and

November 6, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

the need for careful navigation through the minefield of
problems. When we talked then of the "Palestinian problem," he
shocked me by saying that the difficulties with the Palestinians
will certainly be resolved, but only with great care and great
patience. "Solutions would come," he said, "but it would take
time." This was certainly not the conventional thinking at that
time. "Palestinians," he declared, "were not the strategic
problem."
The real strategic problem of security confronting Israel, he
quietly argued, was Syria. Syria had the military strength; Syria
had the military power; Syria had the military support and the
political support to undermine and destroy Israel's security. Yet,
when referring to Syria, he was optimistic. Again, he shocked me
when he said that when Syria moves towards peace, Syria could
be relied upon because Syrians, unlike any other group or state in
the region, had always kept their word. This was new
information to me. They had kept their word, he said, from the
time they signed the first disengagement agreement on the
Golan. He was convinced that they would keep their word once
they signed an agreement for peace - a written agreement for
peace.
That conversation, honourable senators, took place over
20 years ago in Israel. Many times since then, when I have
watched Yitzhak Rabin or listened to his carefully crafted words,
I remember that dialogue, and still I marvel at his perception, his
precision and his vision.
The last time I saw Yitzhak Rabin was in his office in
Jerusalem, just this last August, on the Wednesday morning
following the signing of the agreement between Arafat and
himself, which signing had taken place the night before in Taba.
I arrived mid-morning just as a meeting of the Israeli cabinet
responsible for security was breaking up. This committee was
chaired by Rabin as Prime Minister and Minister of Defence, and
the generals continued to noisily debate the issues as they moved
outside the cabinet door. Some sat down beside me on a sofa to
review detailed maps and schedules spread out on a coffee table
in front of the sofa. I watched with some amusement as some of
the military leaders would leave the discussion from time to time,
walk into the cabinet room, fetch a piece of honey cake or a
piece of fruit, and return to the coffee table to continue the
debate.
Yitzhak Rabin emerged after hearing the commotion from his
office, which was right next door, and glanced at me as the only
stranger in the anteroom observing the scene. He was
dishevelled, smoking heavily, looking for all the world as if he
had just slept in his clothes or, worse, as if a tank had just rolled
over him. We glanced at each other, and he returned to his office
with a quizzical look on his face wondering who this alien was,
who this stranger was, and what I was doing there at this critical
time. He emerged a few minutes later talking to an assistant and
a military aide, and again he glanced at me. Finally, there was a
flicker of recognition. He quickly approached me, apologized for
not being able to spend some time but, as I could see. he was
quite busy. I reminded him that I was there primarily not to meet
with him, but to meet with Mr. Eitan Haber, his chief of staff.
whom I had met several times in Canada. A few minutes later,
after Rabin had returned to his office, Haber came out,

2197

apologized for the delay, and ushered me into his office
connected to Rabin's office next door.
Honourable senators, for those of you who watched Rabin's
funeral early this morning. you will recall that Eitan Haber was
the last speaker who spoke so eloquently, reading from the
blood-stained words of the song sheet dedicated to peace that
Rabin sang from and stuck in his pocket just before he was so
cruelly struck down.
0
(2030)

On that August morning in Israel, Haber and I discussed the
deep divisions that both of us recognized within Israel. I had not
been there for some time and I mentioned to him that I had never
seen the divisions so deep and so vitriolic. Yet, Haber said that
both Rabin and he were optimistic. Movements, manoeuvres and
tactics were under way to unravel the polarization, to change the
very dialectics of division, to alter the public dialogue.
We discussed at length the role of the orthodox community.
We discussed certain leadership personalities within that
orthodox community. We reviewed our respective roots that lie
deep within that orthodox community and Mr. Rabin's
relationship to that group. Mr. Haber reviewed for me the
complexities and difficulties necessary to gain political
momentum to overcome the internal objections to peace and to
the peace process. He covered the ground, as Rabin would, with
a lucid, optimistic and penetrating analysis stressing, not
minimizing, the day-to-day difficulties facing the Rabin
government - making peace with both its neighbours on the
outside and seeking to reconcile the deep and passionate
divisions splitting Israeli society on the inside. His voice echoed
the wear and tear, the stress lines, that I saw deeply etched on
Rabin's face that morning.
Honourable senators, those in Israel now face a double
tragedy - the death of a great leader and caused by the hand, of
all things, of a fellow Israeli and co-religionist, unheard of since
the founding of the state and so contrary to the basic tenets of
Judaism, so inimical to the precious value system of Israel itself.
This cowardly, vicious act will compel those within and without
Israel to probe the foundations of their inner beliefs, to question
how Israel could have fallen from a state of grace. This
introspection and soul-searching will continue in every corner of
Israel and amongst its supporters throughout the world, until a
moral equilibrium is regained, until a collective sense of human
dignity and respect for human life is at least partially, if only
partially, recaptured.
Honourable senators, watch now. Watch carefully how this
vile act will convulse the very core of that democratic society,
constructed as it is on the very first principles of civilization.
Even at this early stage, is there a parallel lesson one can learn
from this tragedy? The Hebrew sages remind us that we must
train ourselves to seek to repair every disaster to the human
condition. These sages tell us that words can kill, that ideas can
kill. At the end of each service, at least three times daily, Jews
the world over conclude their prayers with this phrase: "Oh, my
God! Guard my tongue from evil and my lips from speaking
guile." This self-restraint from speaking and spreading evil lies
deep at the heart of Jewish morality.

Those in Israel and beyond who are deeply religious. orthodox
in their beliefs. as well as others. have forgotten their prayers,
lèrgotten the tenets of their faith. The uncivil discourse. the crude
analogies. the obscene name-calling acted as a catalyst for this
vile and venal act. Guarding one's tongue is a lesson that ail] of us
must learn in our daily political discourse if we are flot to, incite
others to acts of violence. Words have always been important to
lsrael. Now those words must be carefully chosen to continue the
endless search for peace.
Jews, honourable senators. do flot mourn death. The Kaddish,
the blessing commemorating the passage of a human soul.
contains words that celebrate life. We celebrate the words, the
deeds and the life of Yitzhak Rabin. The final words when
reciting the Kaddish are these:
He who maketh peace in his high places may he make
peace for us and for Israel and let us say. amen.
To Yitzhak Rabin. for aIl of his works~, for ail of his acts of
humility, for aIl ot his public dedication and personal sacrifice,
for aIl of his deeds of greatness. tor ail of his rniitzvot, let us say
amen.

Hon. Noël A. Kinsella: Honourable senators. today. the world
community showed its capacity for solidarity in the face of evil.
Ih also showed the high premium we place on peace. as more
than 80 global leaders. including the Prime Minister of Canada.
gathered in Jerusalem to bury a great peacemaker of our time.
Yitzhak Rabin.
This son of the City of David and Solomon was an instrument
of peace. courageously sowing hope where there had only been
hatred. seeking understanding where there was only iniury and
despair. Canadians - along with men and women of goodwill
everywhere - expressed their dismay and sadness at this great
loss and, in the next breath. expressed the wish that the good
seeds sown by Prime Minister Rabin will continue to be nurtured
and cultivated so that a great harvest is yielded in the wonderful
fruit of shaloin.
May Yitzhak rest in the bosom of Abraham.
[Trans lation]

Hon. Jean-Louis Roux: Honourable senators. as honourary
president of Artists for Peace and as a member of' the arts
community in Canada, 1 wish to express betore this house the
tremendous emotion 1 telt when I heard the news of the
assassination of the Prime Minister of Israel. Mr. Yitzhak Rabin,
on Saturday. November 4, 1995.

Who could have foreseen that. one day. we would hear the same
words uttered by iifelong and irreconcilable enemes. Enough
violence! Enough butchery! Let us give peace a chance.
[Translation]
Honourable senators. there are probably a host of complex
reasons why Rabin and Arafat decided to recognize the right of
the state of Israel tii live in peace and security, and the right of
the PLO to represent the Palestinian people. Economic
considerations must have weighed heavily. To wage war is a
costly business. The manufacture and purchase of extremely
sophisticated weaponry, and keeping a large military
establishment or hordes of terrorists combat ready, probably
played a major role in destroying the economy of both sides.
[En glisti]
However. 1 dare say -indeed 1 hope - that it is their
respective peoples that allowed Rabin and Arafat to clear the
hurdles toward lasting peace in the Middle East. The fanatics
may yell louder and, sadly. may even be so blinded as to pull the
trigger on their own to further their political ends. but it is
inconceivable to imagine that the great majority of men and
women that inhabit this planet would accept to ailow their
children. their parents or their friends to be mindlessiy murdered
for whatever cause it may be. 1 like to think that it is precisely the
Israeli and the Palestinian peoples who made it possible f'or their
leaders to renew hope on thai occasion.
[Translation]
Honourable senators. ail the commentators and aIl the
politicians said at the time that it was not the moment for smug
celebration; that the road to peace would be rocky and would
require a steadfast communal will to carry on to the end; that
Jewish or Arab extremists would push aIl the more violently and
aggressively to ensure the venture failed. Alas, in the past two
years. events have proven them right. So many women, children
and men sacrificed to fanaticism. The latest victim. to date, is the
Israeli Prime Minister. Yitzhak Rabin. He was awarded the
Nobel Peace Prize together with Yasser Arafat, in recognition of
their courage and determination in establishing long-lasting
peace in the Middle East. Beyond their fight in mortal combat.
each came to realize that Saint-Exupéry was right in having the
father of he who reigned over the Empire say:
You must neyer meet man in bis superficiality; you must
look for him at the seventh level of his soul. bis heart and
his mi. Otherwise. if you seek for yourself in your most
vulgar movements. you end up spilling blood uselessly.

[En glish]
1 took full measure of the man's words on September 13. 1993.
The whole world witnessed the historic moment at the White
House as he, albeit reluctantly. extended his hand to the PLO's
chairman Yasser Arafat. I remember being deeply moved to see
those two men join hands in an effort to put an end to the
generations- loîig Arab-Israeli struggle.
Beholdine this bold act of' couragie and gýoodAÀill. the crowd
stood ag(-hast. thcîi met it with a resounding andijv i plue

1Senalor

Gratsien 1

[En glish]
0

(2111)

The cruel irony is that Rabin was shot and murdered while
preaching peace. and even worse. at the hands of a fellow Jew. 1
heard on Saturday nioht an American official suggcst that this
tragc assassination miight actualiv galvanize support foi- the
peace process iifiated two vears ago.

November 6, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

2199
2199

SENATE DEBATES

Nove mber 6, 1995

As a member of Artists for Peace and as a Canadian citizen, I
pray with all my heart that he is right and that out of this tragedy,
Israelis and Palestinians may find the courage to strengthen their
resolve for peace.
I call upon all honourable senators to join me in paying tribute
to a hero of peace such as the worid will so desperately need in
the future, Yitzhak Rabin.

SENATOR'S STATEMENT
SOLICITOR GENERAL
EFFICACY OF SECURITY ARRANGEMENTS
AT RESIDENCE OF PRIME MINISTER

Hon. William M. Kelly: Honourable senators, while I
certainly associate myself with all that has been said with respect
to Prime Minister Rabin, I would say at the same time that we
should thank God that tonight we are not paying tribute to our
own head of state. I refer to the break-in which occurred
at 24 Sussex Drive during the weekend.
I must confess I was shocked and I was outraged. This is our
head of state.
An Hon. Senator: He is our Prime Minister, not our head of
state.
Senator Kelly: He is our Prime Minister. He is my head of
state.
I do not know how long it will take for Canadians to outgrow
this deep-seated attitude that these things cannot happen here. We
are so convinced that these things happen elsewhere, but not
here. Presidents, heads of state, prime ministers - important
people who involve themselves in government - are attacked or
assassinated elsewhere but never, ever in Canada.
Honourable senators, the recent referendum developed great
passion in this country, passion at a level that in many countries
could have excited violence aimed at leaders of both sides of
such an issue. In any other country, security would have been
stepped up but, of course, not in Canada, because serious things
of this nature do not happen here.
I arn not suggesting by any means that the referendum debate
had anything to do with the break-in at Sussex Drive.
Nonetheless, prudence in this case might have avoided the
incident that happened over the weekend.
Honourable senators, it is easy to blame the police. Perhaps
they have earned a great deal of the blame: I do not know. None
of us knows yet. However, I have had firsthand experience with
Canadian political leaders. particularly at the levels of premier
and prime minister, on matters of security. In almost all the cases,
the security arrangements put in place fell far short of the
security arrangements recommended by police agencies and
protective agencies.

It is considered bad politics in Canada for leaders to be seen
taking precautions of the sort that we believe belong in the U.S,
the United Kingdom, France, Italy, Greece, or even Australia.
Look what happened when Prime Minister Mulroney was seen
to permit security arrangements in excess of what had been
normal in Canada. The media ridiculed him. Canadians were
persuaded to laugh. They thought that was silly. Let me tell you
an interesting anecdote that occurred at that time.
I had occasion to discuss the issue with a well-known member
of the Ottawa press gallery, and he said, "Senator, I understand
your viewpoint, but there is a major difference. In the countries
such as you mentioned - Indonesia, Iran, India and
elsewhere - an assassination usually heralds an overthrow of a
regime and a new government. In Canada, if our head of state
were assassinated. the party in power would simply elect a new
leader who would then become the new prime minister, and we
would get on with the business of the country." How bloody
cynical! That kind of attitude, I think, is pretty serious.
Honourable senators know my long-standing concern about
international terrorists. My main objective is to try to keep ahead
of events because terrorism has many faces. How many
airplanes, for example, must be bombed and people killed before
we take serious, maximum protective measures? During the
debate on Bill C-71, I remarked on how slowly we are dealing
with the problem of detection of plastic explosives. How many
more planes, or briefcases, or apparently innocent-looking baby
carriages must explode before we feel we should hurry a bit?
We all mourn the tragic death of the leader of Israel. Surely, it
would have been prudent to review immediately security
arrangements at 24 Sussex Drive. We are doing that now but, as
usual, after the event. Fortunately, this was not a tragic event,
which only goes to prove the other thing that Canadians believe:
We are really lucky. Well, let us hope that we continue to be
lucky.

ROUTINE PROCEEDINGS
THE ESTIMATES, 1995-96
TABLING OF SUPPLEMENTARY ESTIMATES (A)

Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government) tabled the Supplementary Estimates (A) for the
fiscal year ending March 31, 1996.
SUPPLEMENTARY ESTIMATES (A) REFERRED TO
NATIONAL FINANCE COMMITTEE

Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government), with leave of the Senate and notwithstanding
rule 58(1)(f), moved:
That the Standing Senate Committee on National Finance
be authorized to examine and report upon the expenditures
set out in the Supplementary Estimates (A) for the fiscal
year ending March 31 of. 1996. with the exception of Privy
Council Vote 25a.

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, is leave
granted?

Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Motion agreed to.

OFFICIAL LANGUAGES
SUPPLEMENTARY ESTIMATES (A)-PRIVY COUNCIL VOTE 25A
REFERREIJ TO JOINT COMMITTEE

Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government), with leave of the Senate and notwitbstanding
rule 58(l)(f), moved:
That tbe Standing Joint Committee on OfficiaI Languages
be authorized to examine the expenditures set out in Privy
Council Vote 25a of' the Supplementary Estimates (A) for
the fiscal year ending Marcb 31. 1996; and
That a message be sent to the House of Commons 10
acquaint that House accordingly.

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, is leave
granted?

Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Motion agreed

10.

O(2050)f

QUESTION PERIOD
SOLICITOR GENERtAL
EFFICACY 0F SECURITY ARRANGEMENTS AT RESIDENCE OF
PRIME MINISTER-GOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. Colin Kenny: Honourable senators, 1 echo and support
Senator Kelly's comments regarding the appalling breacb of
security at 24 Sussex Drive. I should like to know if tbe Leader
of the Government in the Senate can provide us witb any more
intormation as to what might have happened there. 1 should like
t0 know if the Commissioner of' the Royal Canadian Mounted
Police bas offered bis resignation and. if not. why flot'?

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators. 1 join witb Senators Kenny and Kelly and
every member of this bouse in deploring the events that took
place at 24 Sussex Drive. 1 should also like to add a personal
tribute te, Aline Chrétien.

Hon. Senators: Hear. hear!
Senator Fairbairn: Those who bave mel ber will knovw that
she is a wornan of character and strcngth. with a very cool hcad.
She deserves a -real deal ol credit and. indeed. oui- th-anks.

The Commissioner of the RCMP held a news conference this
morning in which be, too. indicated that the events which took
place were totally unacceptable. Today. obviously. the security
arrangements at 24 Sussex Drive have been flot only under
review but have been the subject of strengthening. Indeed. a
review of aIl security arrangements at officia] residences has
been instituted. including the Governor General's residence at
Rideau Hall. and the residence at Harrington Lake.
The specific incident is now under urgent review by Assistant
Commissioner Marteli of the RCMIP. It is boped that the results
of the review will be received quickly, possibly by the end of the
week.
REVIEW OF~ SECURITY ARRANGEMENTS AT OFFICIAL
RESIDENCES-PUBLICATION 0F RESULISGOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. J. Michael Forrestali: Honourable senators. might 1 ask
wbether we can anticipate that the resuits of this review will, in
tact, be made available to the public'?
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators. because these matters are of a security
nature. 1 imagine that tbey will remain just that. They will flot be
made public, any more than the methods to strengthen the
security will be made public.
The honourable senator can rest assured that action bas been
taken already. This event is unprecedented in our history. The
Solicitor General and the Commissioner of the RCMP have both
said very clearly that it will not happen again.

Senator Forrestaîl: Honourable senators. tbe purpose in
asking my question is to underscore the determination and the
absolute necessity of' the Canadian public to know what
bappened. how it happened, and bow it may flot ever bappen
again. Having due regard for the requirements of' the security
measures being taken by those wbo are charged with the
protection ot our national leaders, the basis for my question is the
need for Canadians to know how, and under wbat circumstances.
their national leaders are protected.
Once again. 1 ask the Leader of the Govemnment flot to bide
behind the absolutely ridiculous press conference that was held
today. 1 felt embarrassed. as 1 arn sure most viewers of it did.
Canadians must understand and know tbat tbeir leaders are being
protected, and sbould flot fear a repeat of wbat happened 10 the
Prime Minister last nigbt. Witb ail due respect to everyone. there
is a need for people to know. In the absence of that, there will
only be continued fear.
I ask the leader to bring forward some enligbtenment on tbis
matter.

Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators. 1 am certain tbat the
Commissioner of the RCMIP tbe Solicitor General and. indeed.
the Prime Minister himself will weigb carefully tbe events of
recent days. and whatever information is possible to -ive out will
be given out. but flot at the expense of the strength ofthe securiîy
surrounidine the Leader of' the Governnienî and others.
Senator Forrestaîl: What security'?

Nove
mbe
6,
1995SENATE
DEBATES

November 6,1995

DELAYED ANS WER TO ORAL QUESTION
Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourable senators, 1 have one delayed answer
in response to a question raised in the Senate on lune 13, 1995,
by the Honourable Senator Spivak regarding the report on the
state of the envjronment and discussion on sustainable
development at the G-7 Summit.
ENVIRONMENT
CANCELLATION 0F REPORT ON STATE 0F
ENVIRONMENT POSSIBILITY 0F DISCUSSION ON SUSTAINABLE
DEVELOPMENT AT G-7 SUMMIT-GOVERNMENT POSITION

(Response to question raised bY Hon. Mira Spivak on
June 13, 1995)

Environment Canada is not cutting the report. It is
planning to bring out the 1996 state of Canada's
environment report in an electronic format. The report will
be made available chapter by chapter on the Internet,
starting this year. In 1996, when ail chapters are finished, a
complete version wilI be made available on CD-ROM and a
printed edition wiIl follow if a private sector partner can be
found.
Environment Canada remains committed to a
comprehensive state of the environment reporting system.
By finding a different way to produce these reports we can
save $3.5 million over the next three years, and still provide
Canadians with the information they need.
Environment Canada will be working over the next
12 months to put in place new, more efficient arrangements.

2201
20

questions necessary to dispose of the motion by the
Honourable
Senator
Fairbairn.
P.C..
dated
November 2, 1995, to instruct the Standing Senate
Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs to present
their Final Report to the Senate on the Message and on the
Motion regarding Bill C-69, An Act to provide for the
establishment of electoral boundaries commissions and the
readjustment of electoral boundaries, shaîl be put forthwith
without further debate or amendment, and that any votes on
any of those questions not be further deferred.
The Hon. the Speaker: Is it your pleasure, honourable
senators, to adopt the motion?
Sonne Hon. Senators: Agreed.
An Hon. Senator: On division.
0 (210o)

Hon. Lowell Murray: This may be a good time to
congratulate the govemment, and in particular the Deputy Leader
of the Govemment, for invoking yet another of the excellent new
rules brought in by Senator Robertson and her committee several
years ago.
Motion agreed to, on division.
EXPLOSIVES ACT
BILL TO AMEND-THIRD READING

Hon. Colin Kenny moved the third reading of Bill C-71, to
amend the Explosives Act.
Motion agreed to and bill read third time and passed.

ORDERS 0F THE DAY

ENERGY, THE ENVIRONMENT
AND NATURAL RESOURCES

ELECTORAL BOUNDARIES
READJUSTMENT BILL, 1995

AUTOMATION 0F WEATHER STATIONS-INTERIM REPORT 0F
COMMI'ITEE-DEBATE ADJOURNED

ALLOTMENT 0F TIME FOR DEBATE

The Senate proceeded to consideration of the seventeenth
report of the Standing Senate Committee on Energy, the
Environment and Natural Resources (study on the safety
implications of automated weather observation systems
(AWOS)), tabled in the Senate on Tuesday, July 5, 1995.-

Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourable senators, before we proceed with
Orders of the Day, I want to mention that there has been lengthy
discussion with the other side about allocating a specified
number of days for the consideration of Senator Fairbairn's
motion to instruct the Legal and Constitutional Affairs
Committee to table its final report on Bill C-69. I arn happy to
report that we have been able to reach an agreement.

(Honourable Senator Kennv).

Hon. Colin Kenny: Honourable senators, this order has been
standing in my name for some time now, and if no other senators
wish to speak to it, I should like to have it removed from the
Order Paper.

Accordingly, pursuant to rule 39, 1 move:
That at 5:30 p.m. on Tuesday, November 21, 1995, any
proceedings before the Senate shall be interrupted and aIl

Before doing that, I should like to make a few brief comments
relating, to some extent, to Senator Camney's Notice of Inquiry,
No. 66, with which we will deal later in the day.

Simply put, the committee's report on AWOS was that the
committee had no confidence in the automated weather system
which the government was installing because the pilots do not
believe that the new scheme, even though it saves a great deal of
money, is safe. Until the committee is convinced by the pilots
flying the aircraft that the new system is safe, I believe that there
will be bipartisan opposition to this proposal. Until the
government gains the support of the pilots who are responsible
for the safety of flying passengers, and using this new system,
your committee will continue to oppose this proposal.
Later tonight, or perhaps later this week, Senator Carney will
speak at some length about the committee's unhappiness with the
lack of response we have been receiving from the government on
this matter. We issued an interim report on July 5, four months
ago, and we asked for a response from the ministers involved: the
Minister of Fisheries and Oceans, the Minister of the
Environment, and the Minister of Transport. Members of the
committee from both sides are extremely disappointed that we
have not had the courtesy of a response.
Frankly, the only way that Senate committees will have any
impact is if we insist that the government reply to our reports,
and if we continue to call back members of the government to
respond to our reports until we get satisfactory answers. This is a
serious issue that affects all senators. It affects all of our
committees. Honourable senators should know that the Standing
Senate Committee on Energy. the Environment and Natural
Resources intends to make an issue of this until we receive a
response from these ministers.
We are not asking necessarily even for a flavourable response;
we are simply saying we would like a response.
Senator Carney: We want a favourable response.
Senator Kenny: We would prefer a favourable response.
Senator Carney. you are quite right. However, having said that,
we have heard nothing from them, and that is not acceptable.
On motion of Senator Carney. debate adjourned.

PRIVILEGE
ORAL NOTICE

Hon. Anne C. Cools: Honourable senators, I rise today to give
notice that I wish to raise a question of privilege pursuant to
rule 43(1)(a) of the Rules of the Senate of Canada. I ask the
Speaker of the Senate to rule whether there is a prima facie
breach of privilege, and if so found, I am prepared to move the
necessary motion.
The office of the Speaker of the Senate deserves our individual
and collective support. The role of the Speaker of the Senate is
quite different from that of the Speaker of the House of
Commons. In legislative and constitutional powers. the Speaker
of the Senate possesses no more powers than any other senator.
In respect of statute-making authority, all senators arc equal. and
all possess the same powers. As senators, we must be rnindful of

I Senator Kenny

1

this. and cause no deliberate or inadvertent intrusion into his
position; that is, we must cause no imposition.
Honourable senators, I contend that such an imposition took
place during debate on October 19, 1995, which is an imposition
on the Senate itself and, consequently, constitutes a breach of the
privileges of the Senate. The issues today concern a point of
order that was raised in debate in this chamber on October 19,
1995. In the process, I ask senators to assert their individual
powers, privileges and immunities, and thereby relieve the
Speaker of the Senate from the growing burden of demands on
him to exercise powers that he does not possess, and from
requests to perforrm a role which is not the role of the Speaker of
the Senate.
•

(-Io

Honourable senators. there is developing in this chamber a
practice of using points of order as implements for arresting and
impeding debate. The result is the prevention of honourable
senators from exercising their functions and duties as senators.
The use of a point of order cannot exceed the authority, limits or
purpose lor which points of order are intended and cannot exceed
its legitimate purpose as a point of order. In addition, points of
order are precisely that - points - identifiable, discernible
points. rules or orders that have been breached. The particular
point must be identified and measured against the particular rule
or order that has been impugned. Simply put, points of order are
to maintain order, and points of order which create disorder are
simply not in order. I refer to the point of order raised and
advanced on October 19. 1995, by Senator Kinsella and
supported by the Speaker pro tempore, Senator Ottenheimer, and
by Senator Lynch-Staunton.
Honourable senators, the Speaker of the Senate is not the voice
of the Senate. nor of the senators, and is not chosen by them.
This was planned by the Fathers of Confederation and is
embodied in section 34 of the British North America Act, 1867.
Further. the Senate's powers and privileges are embodied in
section 18 of the same BNA Act. Our Fathers of Confederation
were very prudent and astute. They constituted and composed the
Senate most deliberately. Further a point of order cannot be used
to compromise the Speaker or the position of the Speaker. or to
limit the powers and privileges of the Senate. No point of order
may ask the Speaker to adjudicate on the competence of the
Senate to pass legislation. Competence is a question of the legal
and constitutional powers of the Senate. Beauchesne's
5th Edition, rule 240, tells us that:
The Speaker will not give a decision upon a constitutional
question nor decide a question of law, though the same may
be raised on a point of order or privilege.
Further, in 1969, the Speaker of the House of Commons.
Lucien Lamoureux, ruled that:
I have had occasion in the past to indicate that it is not the
responsibility of the Chair to rule on questions of law or on
constitutional questions. This ruling has been made in many
instances by previous speakers.
These limitations to the Speaker of the House of Commons are
even more marked fior the Speaker of the Senate.

November 6, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

Honourable senators, sections 34 and 18 of the BNA Act
cannot be amended by the personal assertions of some senators.
Though leaders on their side, they simply cannot effect a
constitutional change by a wish or whim. Words are insufficient
to change the Constitution and the constitutional powers of this
Parliament, this Senate or the Senate Speaker. The powers of the
Senate and of senators are not amended, altered or limited by any
senator's say-so or wishes. No senator may hold up the business
or prevent the Senate or senators from exercising their functions
and duties as senators.
Honourable senators, on Thursday, October 19, 1995, the only
breach of order was committed by certain honourable senators
while claiming a point of order. They shielded their actions from
being called to order because a point of order cannot be raised on
a point of order. When I called their attention to their breach
saying "Your Honour, there is nothing before us. I did not move
anything," they paid no attention. The Speaker pro tempore, in
the name of order, did not permit me to move and second the
question, the question being the motion for second reading of a
bill.
Honourable senators, on October 19, 1995, there was no
proper point of order raised by Senator Kinsella. In addition,
Senators Ottenheimer, Kinsella and Lynch-Staunton were the
ones breaching order. Beauchesne's 5th Edition, rule 296, tells us
that:
It is a paramount principle that no Member may speak
except when there is a question before the house.
In blocking the motion for second reading, they essentially
prevented second reading debate. Bill S-1l, concerning one
Karla Homolka, is a bill like any bill seeking second reading.
Certainly, those honourable senators know that it is in order for
the Senate to pass bills, to debate second reading of a bill, and
that bills are incipient acts of Parliament's statement.
Honourable senators, Senator Kinsella, under the claim of a
point of order, though himself out of order, asked the Speaker pro
tempore to make a determination on the substance of Bill S-1l
while they blocked me from speaking on the substance. This was
an improper request of the Speaker, an imposition. The Speaker
pro tempore was asked to make a determination on the same
substance, in particular, the powers, privileges and competence
of the Senate. This determination of substance, that is, powers
and competence, belongs to the Senate, not to the Speaker.
Senator Kinsella asked the Speaker to appropriate a function and
a power that belongs legally, constitutionally and politically to
the Senate collectively.
Certainly no proper point of order was raised on
October 19, 1995. When I asked the precise point of order that I
had breached, neither of those three senators would identify the
particular point, rule or order that they claimed had been
transgressed by myself or Bill S-11. Also, I repeat, they
themselves were out of order because there was no question
before the Senate. The question of second reading had not been
moved and seconded.

2203

Their actions, destined to confound, designed to prevent the
motion for second reading of Bill S-11, concerted to prevent
second reading and second reading debate and to hinder the bill's
movement through the Senate by placing it into the Speaker's
cognizance, are actions that constitute a breach of this chamber's
privileges.
Senator Ottenheimer, Speaker pro tempore, and Senators
Lynch-Staunton and Kinsella, Leader and Acting Deputy Leader
of the Opposition, know the rules of the Senate. Though Senators
Carstairs and Stewart kindly reminded them of Senator Molgat's
ruling of May 9, 1995, on points of order before questions are
moved and seconded, they insisted and persisted on their course.
Senator Molgat's rulings clearly indicate his and the Senate's
concurrence with the time-honoured Senate rule that there may
be no question before the chamber until such question is moved
and seconded. On May 9, 1995, the Speaker of the Senate said:
...I do not think a point of order can be raised on a matter
that is not yet before the Senate. The bill is not before the
Senate. Until such time as Senator Tkachuk moves second
reading, it is only on the Order Paper. It is not really before
the Senate.
Earlier, on December 15, 1994, Senator Murray concurred
with the Speaker of the Senate in saying:
...Senator Cools has given notice...of her intention to move a
motion on that matter. Now is not the time to discuss
whether or not the motion is in order, much less whether it
is appropriate. However. I reserve the right to raise those
questions when the motion is before us.
Senator Robertson also concurred. On February 14, 1995, she
asked our Speaker the appropriate time to raise a point of order:
Honourable senators...I would like your direction. I wish to
raise a point of order on the motion when it is put....Shall I
wait until the motion is put, or should I raise my point of
order this afternoon?
Senator Molgat replied:
Honourable senators, there is no motion before the Senate at
this time. Until such time as Senator Cools moves the
motion and it is read from the Chair, there is nothing before
us. A debate at this point would be on an issue which is not
really before the Senate.
Senator Robertson concurred again saying:
Honourable senators, that is why I raised the matter. because
we do not have a motion before us.
0(2120)

Honourable senators, it is a breach of our privileges and
powers to paralyse our legislative rights and functions by asking
the Speaker to adjudicate the Senate's powers with regard to the
substance and legislative result of bills as a device to block
debate and senators' opinions.

Honourable senators. the Speaker of the Senate has no power
or authority to adjudicate the substance and intention of Bill S-1 I
or of any other bill. He has no power to settle questions regarding
the judicial result of Bill S-l or regarding the Senate's pleasure
to pass or not to pass Bill S-1, or the appropriateness or
righteousness of the Senate's actions in this regard. The
settlement of these questions belongs to the Senate
institutionally. and the manner in which the Senate usually settles
such questions is by consideration and debate of the bill.

Senator Cools: It is a question of privilege, not a point of
order.

The Senate's acceptance or rejection of Bill S-11 is a judgment
and a pleasure that belongs to the Senate collectively and not to
the Speaker individually. The Speaker, as all senators, may
participate in these considerations, may debate and vote, but
from the floor, not from the chair.

Honourable senators, the practice of law as commerce - that
is, the legal profession as a competitive, commercial interest has placed the profession's self-interests -

Honourable senators, a similar use of a point of order occurred
in debate on November 1, 1995, found at page 2170 of the
Debates of the Senate. Raising a point of order, Senator
Lynch-Staunton interrupted the senator speaking. He raised
certain issues for the Speaker's adjudication, issues which the
Speaker had already spoken to, settled and ruled upon in his
ruling on July 11, 1995. Senator Lynch-Staunton used a point of
order to interrupt and impede debate and also as a mechanism to
debate, question, reopen and even negate Speaker Molgat's
ruling. I believe that to use points of order in this way is also a
breach of privilege.
Honourable senators, the situation of October 19. 1995,
involved no breach of any order or rule of the Senate by myself
or Bill S-1. There was no breach of order other than the
breaches by Senators Ottenheimer, Kinsella and Lynch-Staunton.
However, honourable senators, there was a breach of privilege.
I ask the Speaker of the Senate to rule as to a prima facie case
of privilege regarding the use of a point of order as a device to
block debate and to bypass the Senate and the Senate's
expressions of its views and opinions on Bill S-l1: in short. to
rule as to the use of a point of order to circumvent the Senate, to
block its legislative functions and to compel the Speaker of the
Senate to decide questions of law, constitution, competence and
pleasure of the Senate. Such use of a point of order denied the
exercise of our functions as senators. denied the Senate its
legislative functions and denied the people of Canada adequate
representation in the Senate. It denied the representative,
legislative and constitutional functions of the Senate and the
senators. In addition, to use a point of order to compel the
Speaker of the Senate to assume the powers that rightly belong to
the Senate has the effect of involving the Speaker in
controversial discussions. This compromises the Speaker and the
Senate's constitution.
Honourable senators, it is patently obvious to Ontarians that
there exists a legal and political malignancy. Those brutal
murders, the Crown's plea bargain agreements, Karla Homolka's
secret trial, Mr. Justice Kovacs' judicial action and publication
bans, lawyer Ken Murray's retention of the videotape evidence.
the former Ontario Attorney General's case The Hon. the Speaker: Senator Cools, you are getting into
the substance of the matter and away fron the point of order.
Perhaps you could keep to the inatter before Lis.

¡ Senaloir Cools

J

I was trying to say that the public of Ontario perceives a
terrible miscarriage of justice. This is a Medusa's head which
requires Perseus' actions. The Senate's powers are crucial in light
of the serious problems afflicting the legal profession, the Law
Society of Upper Canada and the former attorney general's
office.

The Hon. the Speaker: Senator Cools, I hesitate to interrupt
you again, but your point, as I understand it, is the power of the
Speaker. It seems to me that you are now getting into the
substance of the other argument which is not before us now. It is
the power of the Speaker with regard to ruling on points of order.
Senator Cools: No. that is not it totally. That is insufficient.
Your explanation is insufficient. What I am attempting to say is
that the powers of the Senate and of the Parliament of Canada are
more crucial and more critical at this point in our history.
particularly in the life of Ontario, than at any other time. We are
in a particular era, a particular phase in the development of this
country, when it is time for these institutions to assert and to
exercise their powers rather than to run timidly and to say, as
does Senator Kinsella, that we have no powers.
I assure you that I have not spoken to the substance of the
matter. I assure you that if I had gone into the substance of the
matter, I would have been clear.
In any event, what I want to say is that there is a crisis of
confidence in the administration of criminal justice. and the
exercise and assertion of Parliament's powers are necessary to
overcome it. Torontonians and Ontarians are deeply perturbed by
these matters. Daily, the Toronto press and the people of Ontario
state these concerns.
As a senator from Ontario, I request action from the Senate.
The Hon. the Speaker: Senator Cools, I hesitate to interrupt
you, but the question before us deals with the powers of the
Speaker, not what the people of Ontario feel. The question is:
What are the powers of the Speaker? That, as I understand it, is
the question you are raising. I would ask you to stay on that
point, please.
Senator Cools: I was saying, as a senator from Ontario, that I
request action from the Senate. Senator Kinsella's capricious
point of order of October 19. 1995, is a breach of privilege that
has denied me and this Senate the fundamental right to advance
the concerns of the people of Ontario in this place.
Honourable senators. I have been very restrained and very
dispassionate. However, our Hansard record of October 19. 1995.
at pages 2139 to 2143, is less restrained than I.
I ask the Speaker to rule as to a prima facie case of privilege.
I am prepared to move the necessary motion.

November 6, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

Hon. Noël A. Kinsella: Honourable senators, I disagree with
the arguments raised by the Honourable Senator Cools that there
is a prima facie case of breach of our orders here in terms of the
authority of the Speaker to take decisions on points of order that
are raised by honourable senators.
I refer honourable senators to rule 18(1) which makes it very
clear that the duty of the honourable senator who is in the chair
as Speaker is to preserve order and decorum. That is the general
duty required by the rules. It also makes eminent sense that,
unless there is order, very little wisdom will come forward from
any kind of deliberation.
The Speaker is not without a fair history of guidance and
well-defined parameters within which he or she makes the
decisions on points of order and other matters that would
interfere with order and decorum in the chamber.
The most fundamental argument is that which is implicit in
rule 18(4) which says, of course, that, if the honourable senators
are not satisfied with a decision made by the Speaker, the
honourable senators may appeal and that the decision of the
senators then becomes the final decision.
In essence, the role of the Speaker is clear in determining
points of order. To safeguard the authority of the Senate as a
chamber, we have the added provision of appeal so that, in the
end, it is the senators' decision that determines what constitutes
proper order and decorum. The point of order just raised does not
contain a great deal of substance to it.
9 (213)

In ber argument, Senator Cools did make reference to the
objection with regard to the point of order that was raised. When
a motion to present a bill in this chamber is brought to our
attention, the bill being proposed by an honourable senator is
printed and circulated. That is what happens at first reading. That
is when we can first apprehend the action that is intended by the
proponent of a project.
In this case, when we examined the bill at first reading, I rose
on a point of order because it was clear to me that it was not the
kind of bill that is appropriate in this chamber. I asked His
Honour to rule on that as a point of order, which is quite different
from the case referred to by Senator Cools in the matter of
Bill S-10, which was moved by the Honourable Senator Tkachuk
and ruled upon by His Honour. The difference is that there was
no question about challenging the appropriateness of Bill S-10, at
whatever stage of reading we were at; whereas, in this instance,
there is a question concerning the appropriateness of the bill and,
therefore, it was quite appropriate to have raised a point of order
at that time.
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, does any other
senator wish to speak? If not, then, Senator Cools, do you have a
question?

2205

Senator Cools: Yes, I should like to put two questions. I made
it quite clear that I was raising a question of privilege, but I
would still love to give Senator Kinsella the opportunity to tel]
me precisely what order or rule this Bill S-1l has transgressed. It
is simply not good enough for the senator to keep repeating
vague words about the appropriateness or the inappropriateness
of a bill. That is a judgment that the members of this chamber
have a right to make. The fact that Senator Kinsella disagrees
with the bill is simply insufficient cause for him to raise a point
of order and to suspend the bill and to take it out of debate.
Senator Kinsella's personal opinions and personal beliefs are
insufficient to form the opinion of the Senate.
That is my first point.
The Hon. the Speaker: Senator Cools, is that a question that
you are asking of Senator Kinsella?
Senator Cools: Yes. I have asked him the question countless
times before. He has raised a point of order. He has a duty to tell
us the point that has been transgressed. That is what a point of
order is. Perhaps we should have some debate in this chamber at
some time concerning the difference between a point of order
and a point of debate. Some of this is quite tiresome. If Senator
Kinsella could tell me the rules or orders impugned, I would be
grateful and appreciative because then I would understand him a
lot better.
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, if there was
urgency in the matter. I would be prepared to rule now. It seems
to me that rule 18 is fairly clear. However, in fairness, I do want
to have the opportunity to read what Senator Cools has said.
Therefore, I propose to defer my judgment until later.
Senator Cools: I take it that Senator Kinsella will not answer,
or does not want to answer, or wants to defer his answer.
The Senate, collectively, must reach its own conclusion.
The Hon. the Speaker: I think the question. Senator Cools,
was more on the substance of the argument rather than on the
powers of the Speaker. I think that is the question that is before
us.
Senator Cools: Yes.
The Hon. the Speaker: I will defer that question and address
it at a later date.
In fairness to you, I want to read carefully what you said. I
must tell honourable senators that I do not make my judgments
lightly. I have officials with whom I confer and I can assure you
that we have hot debates quite frequently on the subject-matter. I
propose to do the same in this case.
Senator Cools: I thank you, Your Honour. I have no doubt
that you will, as always, be erudite and judicious.
The Senate adjourned until tomorrow at 2 p.m.

THE SENATE
Tuesday, November 7, 1995
The Senate met ai 2:00 p.m., the Speaker in the Chair.
Prayers.

SENATORS' STATEMENTS
FIREARMS BILL
LETTER INVITING SUBMISSIONS
TO TRAVELLING PANELS 0F SENATORS

Hon. Lorna Milne: Honourable senators, 1 rise today to draw
your attention a situation wbicb 1 believe needs some
clarification.
10

Wbile I was visiting my daugbter and newborn granddaughter
in Calgary last week. it came 10 my attention that many members
of tbe public and, in fact. members of Calgary City Council are
under the impression that the committee of the Senate chargyed
with the study of Bill C-68 bas sent subcommittees or panels out
across tbe country to take evidence. Having sat in on that
committee as a replacement. 1 know that tbe Steering Committee
of the Standing Senate Committee on Le gal and Constitutional
Affairs made a conscious decision not bo travel.
Part of the confusion in Calgary seems to arise from a letter
wbicb was given 10 me by several of the aldermen on Calgary
City Council. and, if bonourable senators wisb. 1 can table a copy
of ibis letter. The letter, written on Senate of Canada letterbead,
is from a Mr. Stepben Bail], wbo seems to he an assistant in the
office of Senator Ghitter.
In bis letter dated October 24. 1995. Mr. BaIl informs the
mayor:
Progressive Conservative Senators bave decided tbat if is
appropriate to provide Canadians a furtber opportunity te,
speak witb Senators about Bill C-68.
Mr. Bail tben invites tbe Mayor of Calgary to make a
presentation to one of tbe "panels of three to five senators."*
Mr. Bail is apparenîly tbe contact person for tbose wbo are
interested in appearing.
1 îbink bis opening is misleading. Perbaps it should bave read,
"'Conservative senators bave decided to provide Canadians an
opportuniîy to speak witb Conservative senators.- The letter as il
stands would almost suggest Ibat tbe Conservative maijority on
tbe committee bad voted to travel. We know Ibat Ibat is not the
case.
Reterence is made iii one part of' flic letter t0 the Ifull
conimittee. In anoiber part of' the letter. reference is made îo

panels. This juxtaposition migbî lead the reader te, believe tbat
the panels are subsets of tbe full committee.
It is easy 10 sec how people couid be confused by Ibis letter. 1
know tbat many bave taken from il and others like il tbe
impression Ibat tbe Senate's committee sîudying the bill is
travelling. I merely wisb 10 know wbetber tbis is proper, and te,
clarity tbe record on Ibis matter. since 1 understand tbat tbe
steering committee took a decision not to, allow the committee 10
travel because tbey preferred 10 bear botb pro and con positions
presented in a balanced way. b ave been told tbat tbe full
commitîee bas beard over 65 bours of îestimony from over
70 witnesses.
1 find Ibat the fifîb paragrapb of tbis letter is particularly
disturbing. It states:
Croups and individuals wbo asked 10 be beard by tbe full
Senate Commitîce on Legal and Constitutional Affairs. but
who were not invited to the meetings iii Ottawa, will be
given firsî consideration for one of tbe 30 minute
allotments.
Tbis clearly. to my mind. leaves the impression tbat the travelling
senators are part of' tbe Legal and Constitutional Affairs
Committee and are acting on tbe committee's bebaîf. ln
committee, it was made clear to me tbat tbey are not autborized
to speak for tbe committee. nor do tbey bave t0 report back 10 tbe
committee.
1 believe Ibat any misconception arising out of ibis letier
should be cleared up, and I invite bonourable senators opposite 10
setule my mind about Ibis affair.
[Later]
Hon. Gérald-A. Beaudoin: Honourable senators, 1 agree that
the expression "full Senate committee" used in tbe letter of
October 24, 1995, by Mr. Stephen Bail t0 Mayor AI Duerr of the
city of Calgary may perbaps indireetly lead 10 tbe conclusion that
tbe Progressive Conservative senators wbo are travelling 10
different areas of the country are acting on bebaîf of tbe Standing
Seîîate Couîmittcc on Legal and Constitutional Affairs, or as
subcommittees of that committee.
0f course, it is a question of interpretation. As chairman of tbe
Standing Senate Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs.
I must say Ibat the senators wbo are travelling do not, legally
speaking, comprise subcommittees of our committee b cause. as
tbe Honourable Senator Milne bas said. the decision of tbe Lcgal
and Constitutional Affairs Commitîce was 10 stay in Ottawa.
However, tbey have tbe absolute rigbt 10 act on their own.
I wilI bring 10 tbe attention of Mr. Bal] Senator Milne's
intervention in the Senate. Perbaps the word "fI'Fll should nol
have been used iii thal letter.

20
2207

November7,
1995SENATE
DEBATES

November 7, 1995

Tuesday, Nove mber 7, 1995

INTERNATIONAL TRADE
SUGAR-FAVOURABLE CANADIAN INTERNATIONAL
TRADE TRIBUNAL RULING

Hon. Erminie J. Cohen: Honourable senators, yesterday the
Canadian International Trade Tribunal confirmed what the
Canadian sugar industry bas been saying for months: Sugar is
being dumped into the Canadian market from the United States,
South Korea, and Europe. The tribunal also confirmed that
imports from the European Union are unfairly subsidized. Sugar
from these countries wiII now face tariffs of up to
200 per cent.
I welcome this ruling, which deals with one of the two
trade-related problems faced by the Canadian sugar industry. I
arn particularly pleased because it will help lift a cloud that has
been hanging over the heads of some 250 workers at Lantic
Sugar in Saint John, New Brunswick.
The other trade problem concernis our access to the overly
protected United States market. We do not subsidize our sugar
industry, yet exports of refined Canadian sugar to the United
States have fallen dramatically because of new trade restrictions.
Last January, the United States said that Canada could only
export 8,000 tonnes of sugar. That meant a 77 per cent cut from
the previous 35,000-tonne quota. What is lefi of our quota is in
serious jeopardy if Congress passes its proposed anti-Cuba
legislation.
Our industry is not unfairly subsidized. and who we trade with
is our business. Now that the problem of untaîr imports has been
resolved, the next step is to ensure that we bave proper access to
export markets.
*

141o)

The Standing Senate Committee on Banking, Trade and
Commerce has the honour to present its
TWENTY-SECOND REPORT
Your Committee, to which was referred the Bill C-90, to
amend the Excise Tax Act and the Excise Act, has. in
obedience to the Order of Reference of Thursday,
October 19, 1995, examined the said Bill and now reports
the samne without amendment.
Respectfully submitted,
JOHN SYLVAIN
Deputy Chairmian

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, when shahl this
bill be read the third time?
On motion of Senator Graham, bill placed on Orders of the
Day for third reading at the next sitting of the Senate.
INCOME TAX CONVENTIONS
IMIPLEMENTATION BILL, 1995
REPORT 0F COMMITTEE

Hon. John Sylvain, Deputy Chairman of the Standing Senate
Committee on Banking, Trade and Commerce, presented the
following report:
Tuesday, November 7,1995.

ROUTINE PROCEEDINGS
NATIONAL DEFENCE
On Tabling of Documents:
REPORT 0F SPECIAL COMMISSION ON RESTRLJCTURING
0F THE RESERVES TABLED

Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of' the
Government): Honourable senators, I have the bonour to table
the report of the Special Commission on the Restructuring of
the Reserves to the Minister of National Defence, dated
October 30, 1995.
EXCISE TAX ACT
EXCISE ACT
BILL TO AMEND-REPORT 0F COMMITTEE

Hon. John Sylvain, Deputy Chairman of the Standing Senate
Committee on Banking. Trade and Commerce, presented the
lollowing report:

Commerce has the honour to present its
TWENTY-T-HRD REPORT
Your Committee, to which was referred the Bill C-105,
An Act to implement a convention between Canada and the
Republic of Latvia, a convention between Canada and the
Republic of Estonia, a convention between Canada and the
Republic of Trinidad and Tobago and a protocol between
Canada and the Republic of Hungary, for the avoidance of
double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion with
respect to taxes on income, has, in obedience to tbe Order of
Reference of Thursday, November 2, 1995, examined the
said Bill and now reports the same without amendment.
Respectfully submitted.
JOHN SYLVAIN
I)elput.N Chairincan

UNITED NATIONS

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators. when shall this
bill be read the third time'?
On motion of Senator Graham. bill placed on the Orders of the
Day for third reading at the next sittin- of the Senate.

RESOLUTION TO HIAUT NUCLEAR TESTING-WITHDRAWAL 0F
CO SPONSORSHI P GOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. A. Raynell Andreychuk: Honourable senators. it was
ADJOURNMENT
Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourable senators, with leave of the Senate,
and notwithstanding rule 58(l1)(h). 1 move:
That when the Senate adjourns today. it do stand
adjoumred until Wednesday, November 8, 1995, at 1:30 p.m.

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators. is leave
granted'?

Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Motion agreed to.

GUN CONTROL LEGISLATION
PRESENTATION 0F PETITIONS

Hon. John Sylvain: Honourable senators. 1 have the honour to
deposit 450 pages of petitions containing 11,000 signatures
outlining opposition to the passage of Bill C-68 as it now stands.

QUESTION PERIOD
HUMAN RIGHTS
ESTABLISHMENT 0F SENATE COMMITTEE ON AFFIRMATIVE
ACTION REQUESI FOR RESPONSE TO STATEMENT

Hon. Donald H. Oliver: Honourable senators. when will the
Honourable Leader of the Government in the Senate be in a
position to provide this chamber with a report on our request of
about one year ago in relation to Senate renewal and,
specifically. on the creation of a standing committee on human
rights? This is an area in which Senators Kinsella, Andreychuk,
Ghitter, Di Nino and many others on this side have a deep
interest. When will we receive the report on that matter'?

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators. on the broader question of' Senate renewal
or reform, changes or improvements to this place, as 1 have
indicated privately to Senator Oliver, our Deputy Leader. Senator
Graham, will be pursuing those issues directly in conversation
with hlm. as we have pursued them within our own caucus.
On the question of' the precise proposaI for a committee on
human rights. this interest has certainly been expressed on both
sides of the house. along with other areas of interest for
comrnittee studies or studies in some ether torm. 1 hope that
Senator Grahiam can continue this discussion with the honeurable
senater in the near future.

with outrage and concern that 1 reacted to the article in this
morning's Globe and Mail that Canada has withdrawn its
co-sponsorship of the United Nations resolution seeking to put a
stop to nuclear weapons tests. This move by the government is
surprising because it cornes on the heels of numerous
improvements in this sphere over the past year. March 5 of this
year marked the 25th anniversary of the nuclear non-proliferation
treaty, or NPT bringing with it both a sense of accomplishment
and hope for the future. Canada's commitment to the indefinite.
unconditional extension of the NPT was heartening.
Last June. 1 followed with considerable interest the passage of'
Bill C-87, to implement a convention on chemical weapons.
More recently. 1 noted Canada's stated reservations vis-a-vis
France's controversial nuclear tests.
In light of these recent developments, the government's
decision to reverse its decision and withdraw co-sponsorship
seems to be a step backward in an area in which Canada has
traditionally been a world leader. What message is the
govemment intending to send to the international community'? If
Canada supports the resolution, as the article states, and is simply
arguing about the words - which in my opinion are the correct
words in the preamble to the resolution - then why have we
withdrawn as a co-sponsor of the resolution'? If we are prepared
to support such a resolution, should we not be seen to be
continuing the line of foreign policy that. in the past. has stood
Canada and the world in good stead'? Can the Leader of the
Govemment clarify this situation'?
0

(1420)

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators. I am advised that Canada's position on
nuclear weapons testing has not changed. We did. indeed. vote in
favour of the resolution. and support the cessation of nuclear
weapons testing.
My honourable friend indicated that there was some concern
about wording. In the end, while Canada did not co-sponsor the
resolution. we support the resolution. The negotiation of a
successful. comprehensive test ban treaty also remains a top
priority for Canada.

Senator Andreychuk: Honourable senators. we have
witnessed 167 million deaths in this century as a result of
warfare. A world of peace and cooperation bas been the aim of
Canadian policy makers since Confederation. Moving into the
new millennium requires forward policy planning by our policy
makers. and caîls for a bold and principled foreign policy. We
cannot be seen te be voting f'or something we are net willing te
co-sponsor, What is the difference. except that we are backing
away frem being, leaders in this :irea. which 1 think we sheuld
continue te he'?

November 7, 1995

November7,
1995SENATE
DEBATES

2209
20

The Globe and Mail suggested that we are backing away from
our position and our aggressive stands against nuclear
proliferation as a resuit of pressure from France. This would flot
be the first time that that government bas reversed its stated
foreign policy and pursued solely economic or politîcal interests.

thereby to relieve ourselves of a leadership position in this area.
Unless the government can produce a meritorious reason for
doing so, to quibble about words wben lives are at stake is not
consistent witb previous Canadian govemnments that have been
leaders in this area.

1 would ask the Leader of the Govemnment in the Senate to
comment on whether Canada was pressured into a reversai by
France or by any other country, and wby it would yield to, such
pressure?

RESOLUTION TO HALT NIJCLEAR TESTINGREQUEST FOR COPY 0F OFFENDINO TEXT

Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators, to my knowledge,
Canada did flot respond to any pressure by France or by any
other govemnment. As my honourable friend knows, at the time,
Canada expressed its strong regret with the decision by France to
resume nuclear testing. We stated at the same time, as did others,
that we were encouraged by France's renewed commitment to
sign the comprehensive nuclear test ban treaty. I believe that will
be done in May of next year.
Again, Canada's position on nuclear weapons testing bas flot
changed. Its main tenet remains that no nuclear weapons test
explosions should be conducted in any environment.
Senator Andreychuk: Wby have we backed off fromn our
leadership role in this area? Virtually every delegation that bas
left Canada bas been armed with aggressive moves on the
non-proliferation treaty. I accompanied Senator Bosa to tbe
International Parliamentary Delegation in New York wben bis
sole purpose - supportedi by ail of us - was to put as mucb
pressure as possible on delegations from otber countries of the
world to support tbe extension of tbe non-proliferation treaty, and
to, do wbatever be could to curtail the use of nuclear weapons.
Why would we now be backing off from co-sponsoring tbis
resolution and thus putting ourselves in tbe position of being
followers and not leaders in tbis area?
Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators, I restate tbat Canada
bas not backed off in any way from its position against the
testing of nuclear weapons. We bave remained consistent witb
that policy. We wiIl vote for the resolution. However, by reason
of our disagreement witb some of tbe language in the preamble
to that resolution, we did not co-sponsor it. Nevertbeless, we
strongly support the principle. Canada voted against nuclear
testing; that is tbe message that any delegation leaving from tbe
Canadian Parliament to anywbere else in tbe world can take
witb it.
Senator Andreychuk: In ligbt of your comments, may I say
tbat that bas been the historic precedent and tradition,
particularly wben the words dispute it. I cannot conceive of wby
we would not support tbe words, but sbould tbere not be some
underlying reason wby we did not?
In the past, we bave always been in a position wbere we could
indicate that we were voting for a particular resolution, and
remaining as co-sponsors, but dissociate ourselves from the
wordîng. particularly tbat of a preamble statement. We bave
chosen in this case to move away from co-sponsorship, and

Hon. Lowell Murray: Honourable senators, by way of
supplementary, as a matter of interest and for tbe record, would
tbe Leader of tbe Government state wbat the words are to wbicb
Canada took sucb objection that it withdrew as co-sponsor of the
resolution?
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, I would want to consuit witb the Minister
of Foreign Affairs on that matter and respond on another
occasion.
ATLANTIC CANADA OPPORTUNITIES AGENCY
CORNWALLIS PARK DEVELOPMENT AGENCY-REOUEST FOR
ANSWER TO ORDER PAPER QUESTION ON KPMG REPORT

Hon. J. Michael Forrestali: Honourable senators, my
questions today are along the lines of those asked earlier Iast
week by my colleague Senator Comeau about the Cornwallis
Park Development Agency as it goes about tbe business of
finding a future in wbat was once my borne.
Can tbe Leader of tbe Govemnment give me some indication of
the status of the response to tbe request 1 made in my Order
Paper question of September 7, 1995, for a copy of the KPMG
report on tbe internaI financial and administrative management
of the Cornwallis agency?
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, I will bave to check on tbe status of those
particular questions. I bave responded to our colleague Senator
Comeau on earlier occasions. However, I know that you were
unavoidably absent on the day that tbe Cornwallis Park
Development Agency issue was discussed.
In summary, ACOA bas reviewed tbe agency's accounting and
administrative procedures and bas recommended improvements.
Until tbose improvements are satisfactorily made and concluded.
the funding for tbat organization, whicb, as my bonourable friend
knows, is a locally establisbed one, wilI be witbbeld. Wben the
improvements are satisfactorily made, tbe funding will resume.
Senator Forrestaîl: Honourable senators, witb ail due respect,
the Leader of tbe Govemnment in tbe Senate cannot bave it ail ber
own way. We migbt wait forever. This mess bas been described
by a very prominent Liberal in that part of Nova Scotia, in
written form to Minister Dingwall, as "potentially the greatest
boondoggle to bit this govemment in tbe last 20 years." It is flot
sufficient to say that tbe government is putting in place measures
to correct wbat might have been a minor problem.

Honourable senators, 125 people were employed to do the
work that we now understand could have been done by 20 or 25.
Does the Leader of the Government intend to leave the Senate
with the impression that the government will take no specific
action and that no disciplinary process will be invoked with
respect to this matter?
The actions in the winding down of that base come blatantly
close to serious wrongdoing. It is not enough to shove the matter
under the carpet and resolve to look at some report when it
eventually arrives. We want to know about the expenses. How
much is it costing us? What bas been spent to date? To whon are
the expenses being paid? What were the hiring procedures? What
process was followed with respect to the disposal of material?
I buried my blessed father in a church three weeks ago. After
the funeral, the priest approached me and thanked me for the
great generosity of the government in Ottawa for providing the
pews that were being used in that church. Incidentally, that
church was built - and largely paid for - by my grandfather.

probably knows about some of the recommendations made by
ACOA following its review of the management practices of the
agency, including: that an acceptable business plan be completed
and approved by the board of directors of that agency; that the
CPDA address the division of responsibility between its staff and
the board of directors; that the CPDA clearly define its operating
procedures; and that it have appropriate long-term financial
forecasts developed. Those are some of the guidelines which
came through in the form of recommendations.
I will endeavour to keep my honourable friend apprised as I
learn more about this issue.
[Translation]

FEDERAL-PROVINCIAL RELATIONS
AGREEMENT ON INTERNAL TRADENATURE AND TIMELINESS OF AMENDMENTS TO BILLGOVERNMENT POSITION

I want this mess brought into some kind of clear, public focus.
We cannot do that by sitting around, waiting six months for
another report. There are a dozen questions that need public
answers.

asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate a question
about internai trade, which was finally answered on July I1.

Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators, the Honourable
Senator Forrestall has used some colourful language, as he is
wont from time to time to do. He also indicated that I or the
Liberal government may consider this to be a minor problem,
and he talked about waiting around for six months.

As I mentioned previously in my question, Quebec has serious
reservations about the enforcement provisions in the present
version of Bill C-88. The other provinces also said they had a
problem with these provisions. Bill C-88 may give Ottawa
powers that go beyond what was agreed last year by the
provinces and the federal govemment.

I have stated no such belief or intention. I have said that the
situation has been reviewed. Some recommendations have been
made and, with respect to those recommendations, the
development agency has, itseli. engaged the services of a senior
management consultant to review the operations and
management practices of the agency.
It is my hope that the questions - which are of keen interest
not just to my honourable friend but to Senator Comeau as well
- will be dealt with as the review goes on, and as the
management consultant investigation continues.
I am not in any way trying to minimize anything, or to hide
anything. I have given the honourable senator the information
that I have received. I shall seek other information for him.
Senator Forrestall: Honourable senators, the report was
prepared and ready before September 7. This is now
November 7. If the government is not trying to hide it. then why
has the report not been tabled or addressed in any public
comment? Presumably it deals with the procedures followed with
respect to the agency, its winding down of that base, and the
conversion to some other form of economic activity.
Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators, I can certainly have
discussions with my colleague. However, my honourable friend

I Senatoi Forrestal

I

Hon. Fernand Roberge: Honourable senators, last June. I

The government answered my question as follows:
Amendments to Bill C-88 to clarify the intent of the
legislation will be introduced at the appropriate time.
Honourable senators, Bill C-88 passed second reading last
night in the House of Commons.
I have two questions today. First,
Government in the Senate tell us why
so long to send the amendments to the
she advise the Senate of the nature
Bill C-88?

could the Leader of the
the government is taking
provinces? Second, could
of these amendments to

[English]

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, the bill to which the honourable senator
refers will be dealt with in detail in a House of Commons
committee. I would not presume to speculate upon the
amendments that may be introduced or approved by members of
various parties on the committee.
The bill is now in the midst of the process which may result in
amendments. Along with my honourable friend, we will wait to
sec how things go in the other place.

November7,
1995SENATE
DEBATES

November 7, 1995

ATLANTIC CANADA OPPORTUNITIES AGENCY
CORNWALLIS PARK DEVELOPMENT AGENCYINVENTORY CONTROL AND HIRING PROCEDURESREOUEST FOR PARTICULARS

Hon. Gerald J. Comeau: Honourable senators, my question
also deals with the Cornwallis Park Development Agency, to
follow up onl Senator Forrestall's question regarding the base
assets.
As we know, the assets have flot yet been transferred from
DND to the agency. Cou Id the Leader of the Government provide
us with the details of the inventory control procedures which are
in place to protect taxpayers' assets?
Also regarding inventory protection, the Leader of the
Govemnment is no doubt aware that questions have been raised
about the hiring of the local member of Parliament's riding
president as the inventory control manager at Cornwallis agency.
Given the government's Red Book commitments to integrity
during the Iast election, could the Leader of the Government
advise senators whether an open competition was held for that
position?

2211
21

acceptance of a resolution of this kind. There must be an
explanation that is not apparent in the answer, and one which
would probably throw additional light on the difficulty that
countries like Canada face in the international community when
taking a leadership role in the promotion of human rights in
countries such as China. Perhaps the Leader of the Govemnment
could add this further informnation at a later date.
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, I would be pleased to obtain a copy of the
resolution to which the honourable senator refers. If senators
wish, I wiII provide it to the Senate. I shall also try to obtain
clarification on the numbers, those who opposed and, perhaps,
those who abstained and the reasons for so doing.
VISITORS IN GALLERY
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, 1 would like to

draw to your attention the presence in the Senate gallery of a

distinguished visitor, our former colleague Joan Neiman.
Hon. Senators: Hear, Hear!

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, 1 will certainly follow up on my honourable

PRIVILEGE

friend's question and report back.

MOTION PURSUANT TO RULE 43-SPEAKER'S RULING

UNITED NATIONS

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourahie senators, hefore we

HUMAN RIGHTS IN CHINA-DEFEAT 0F RESOLUTIONREQUEST FOR COPY 0F TEXT

proceed with Orders of the Day, 1 should like to report on a
ruling that was requested of me some time ago.

Hon. Allan J. MacEachen: Honourable senators, 1 should like
to ask a question in connection with an answer given in reply to
a question asked last June by the Honourable Senator Doyle on
human rights in China. The answer tells us about action taken
during a session of the United Nations Commission for Human
Rights in which Canada co-sponsored a draft resolution
containing what 1 thought was a rather powerful cail to China to
overcome violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms,
and observe international standards in the treatment of political
prisoners and equity and transparency in the judicial system.
freedom of expression and freedom of religion.

On October 5, 1995. as found on pages 2105 to 2107 of the
Debates of the Senate, the Honourable Senator Cools raised a
question of privilege in accordance with rule 43 of the Rules of

What interested me was that this draft resolution in which
Canada had a major hand was defeated narrowly when put to a
vote. Approximately 21 countries voted against the resolution
and 20 supported it, with 12 abstaining. I am quite interested in
knowing what countries opposed this resolution and what reasons
were given to justify members of the United Nations voting
against principles which are of the essence of the United Nations
Charter and its declarations. That would be very interesting.

In Senator Cools' opinion, the comments by this witness, as
stated in the newspaper article, "demonstrate her contempt for
the Senate and for parliamentary process and make manifest the
true reasons she appeared before the Senate committee."

Lt would also be interesting to have a copy of the resolution
itself, in addition to the information regarding the countries that
opposed the resolution, and the reasons for their opposition.
Lt is interesting that even today there is a majority at the
United Nations Commission for Human Rights which opposes

the Senate of Canada.
The question of privilege related to an article in The Edmonton
Sun in which a witness who appeared before the Standing Senate

Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs allegedly cast
reflections upon the Senate and senators in connection with the
work of the committee concemning Bill C-68, respecting firearms
and other weapons.

This is not the first time senators have attempted to raise, as
questions of privilege, complaints that newspaper articles cast
adverse reflections upon this chamber. However, as Beauchesne's
6th Edition, citation 69 page 20, states:
Lt is very important ...to indicate that something can be
inflammatory, can be disagreeable, can even be offensive,
but it may not be a question of privilege unless the comment
actually impinges upon the ability of Members of
Parliament to do their job properly.

[Translation]
Honourable senators, in its May 6, 1993 report on the question
of privilege raised in the Senate by Senator Carney, P.C.. and
approved by the Senate on June 10, 1993, the Standing
Committee on Privileges, Standing Rules and Orders made the
following observation:
[En glish]
An adverse reflection upon a Senator or the Senate can
constitute a breach of privilege, but only if it impedes the
Senator or the Senate from performing parliamentary
functions. As such. it has a very narrow application, and is
to be distinguished from actions for defamation, which are
available to ail citizens and are pursued through the civil
courts. It is extremely difficult to bring oneself within the
protection offered by this aspect of parliamentary privilege.
There must be a link or nexus between the alleged
defamation and the parliamentary work of the Senator.
I can find no link between the description given by Senator
Cools of the comments by the witness and the ability of the
Legal and Constitutional Affairs Committee or the senators who
serve on it to carry out their mandate with respect to Bill C-68.
Finding no link, I cannot conclude there has been any prima facie
breach of the privileges of the Senate. Senator Cools bas had an
opportunity to speak on the comments made by this witness and
I think that this is where this niatter should end.
In my opinion, there is no question of privilege.

ORDERS OF TUE DAY
AGRICULTURE AND AGRI-FOOD ADMINISTRATIVE
MONETARY PENALTIES BILL
SECOND READING

Hon. Dan Hays moved the second reading of Bill C-61, to
establish a system of administrative monetary penalties for the
enforcement of the Canada Agricultural Products Act, the Feeds
Act. the Fertilizers Act, the Health of Animals Act. the Meat
Inspection Act, the Pest Control Products Act, the Plant
Protection Act and the Seeds Act.
He said: Honourable senators, Bill C-61 creates a system that
allows officiais of Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada to issue
monetary penalties for serious or repeated violations of the
regulations in the food safety, pesticides and animal and plant
health program areas. These monetary penalties can vary up
to $15,000 for companies and up to $2,000 for individuals not
engaged in agri-business.
The legislation also enables an independent tribunal to hear
appeals of the monetary penalties. Let me define the term
"administrative monetary penalty.- This term is used to

differentiate monetary penalties which are non-punitive in nature
and not administered by the criminal courts, from fines which are
meant to be punitive and are imposed by the criminal courts for
convictions of regulatory offences.
The purpose of the administrative monetary penalties system.
then, is to provide Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada with
appropriate and more flexible responses when dealing with
violations of regulations, such as the marketing of indelible food
products or the inhumane transportation of animais.
The legislation will provide a framework in which Canada's
high standards for food safety and quality can be effectively
enforced, and it will allow Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada to
regulate in a more efficient and cost effective way, requiring less
time and money than pursuing offences through the provincial
courts system.
[Translation]
Honourable senators. Bill C-61 supports competitiveness
among agricultural sectors because it provides the additional
measures required to make enforcement of the regulations
affecting imported and Canadian products more equitable.
Members of the Canadian industry have been complaining for
years that they must comply with more rigorous regulations than
their competitors with respect to safety and quality standards.
The industry supports the proposed system because it allows
Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada to quickly take effective
measures against Canadian importers and businesses marketing
products that do not comply with Canada's high standards on
food safety and pesticide use. Fairly applying standards to
imported and Canadian products promotes competitiveness
among agricultural sectors. If Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada
bas the means to enforce standards effectively, Canada can
maintain its reputation as a producer of safe and healthy food.
When exported products do not comply with health standards,
the reputation of the whole agri-food sector suffers.
[English]
9 (1450)

The concept of using an administrative process and the
application of monetary penalties to encourage compliance with
agricultural acts - rather than relying excessively on the
criminal system to punish offenders - certainly makes a lot of
sense. This is a non-punitive administrative system that has
compliance as its goal. However, we will still have the option to
prosecute serious offences.
The system is fair and expedient. It allows for negotiated
solutions to non-compliance. Administrative monetary penalties
can be reduced to zero dollars if a violator will take immediate
action - for example. by purchasing new equipment - to come
into compliance. Immediate corrective action, of course, results
in a better product, improved health and safety. and more
effective enforcement.

November 7, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

[Translation]

Honourable senators, Bill C-61 provides for the establishment
of a tribunal in charge of reviewing the proposed monetary
penalties from an administrative point of view. The review
tribunal appointed by order of the Governor in Council is an
independent quasi-judicial body. Also, alleged offenders who are
unhappy with the review tribunal's administrative review may
ask for a judicial review by the Federal Court of Canada.
[English]

I should like to say a few words about the use of absolute
liability. Bill C-61 allows the issuance of monetary penalties
based on absolute liability. This means that the department only
needs to prove that the alleged violator committed an act that is
in violation of the regulations. There would be no defence of due
diligence by which a defendant could avoid liability by
establishing that he or she was not negligent.
Under Bill C-61, there is no possibility of imprisonment, no
record of conviction for an offence is created, and penalties are
modest rather than punitive in nature. Because of these factors,
there is no constitutional or other legal impediment to proceeding
on the basis of absolute liability. From a policy perspective,
however, the use of absolute liability is essential to encourage the
food industry to exhibit a high standard of care. This is important
for matters involving the food chain, and consistent with the
approach the courts take in civil cases.
The concept of absolute liability is important to the
effectiveness of this system as a preventive measure. Let me give
you an example of the standards necessary in the food chain:
To someone with peanut allergies, even a minute amount of
peanut dust is enough to send them into anaphylactic shock. To
such a person, the issue is not whether a company exercised due
diligence as a preventive measure. The finding that a product is
mislabelled by not indicating the presentation of peanuts in itself
warrants a finding of liability. The focus is on prevention and
remedial action with Bill C-61, not on a finding of fault.

2213

comply with health, safety, or quality standards for agricultural
products.
To appreciate the significance of this bill, we must consider
the current regulatory regime governing health, quality, and
safety standards for agricultural products. It is a fact that Canada
currently does not enforce regulatory requirements on imports as
rigorously as do our major trading partners, especially the United
States. To Canada's detriment, this is the consequence of making
farm products less competitive in our own country.
An example of regulatory non-compliance or violations of
health, safety, or quality standards includes improper or
misleading labelling of a product, or failure to keep facilities that
handle the product in a sanitary condition; another is importing
feed, seeds or foods products not properly registered or labelled.
Under the current regulatory regime, warnings, seizure, and
detention of products and criminal prosecutions are usually used
to enforce regulations. However, these methods are lengthy and
costly, and not always effective. The legislation before us today
seeks to remedy these imperfections by setting up a new
administrative monetary penalty system, or AMPS. As I interpret
this provision of Bill C-61, the thinking behind the introduction
of these monetary penalties to the regime governing standards for
farm products is to ensure greater compliance.
To this end, Bill C-61 allows officials to fine violators to a
maximum of $15,000, subject to criteria specified in the
regulation portions of the bill, halves the penalties if the violator
pays the fine within a prescribed period, and makes provisions
for a violator to request to enter into a compliance agreement. In
this case, the penalty may be waived or reduced, for example, by
$1 for every $2 spent to remedy the problem. Bill C-61 also
allows a violator who has objections to the penalty assessed to
request a review by the minister or an independent tribunal, and
includes provisions for absolute liability for regulatory
violations. In other words, a penalty can be imposed without
proving fault.

These are a few words of explanation and elaboration on this
piece of legislation, honourable senators. I commend it to you. At
the conclusion of debate on this bill, I will, of course, as is our
practice, ask for its reference to the Standing Senate Committee
on Agriculture and Forestry.

As I stated at the beginning, this side of the chamber is
prepared to support Bill C-61 at this stage of the bill's reading.
However, there are a few provisions of Bill C-61 that we will be
questioning in committee. We will be questioning the provision
of the bill dealing with interpretation by the minister upon appeal
of fines by violators. Similar to the objections that Progressive
Conservative senators who are members of the Legal and
Constitutional Affairs Committee have with the Order in Council
provisions of Bill C-68, the firearms bill, there exists the
possibility that this provision of Bill C-61 will introduce a small
element of arbitrariness into how appeals under this legislation
will work; an element of arbitrariness that Progressive
Conservative senators would rather avoid.

Hon. Eileen Rossiter: Honourable senators, I rise today to
express my party's support for Bill C-61, the Agriculture and
Agri-Food Administrative Monetary Penalties Bill. This bill will
allow agriculture inspectors to fine businesses which fail to

A second objection is in the area of enforcement of penalties
as established by regulation. It appears that the administration
and regulation of the actual AMPS system could undermine one
of the central objectives of the bill, which is to deal with the

The use of absolute liability will also provide for an effective
and efficient enforcement system. The resource base for
enforcing regulations is shrinking. Bill C-61 deliberately designs
a simple, efficient system to deal with those importers or
domestic companies that do not follow our health, safety, and
quality regulations.

length. cost and effectiveness of the current system. Although the
government claims that there will be substantial savings resulting
from this bill. nowhere does the government specify what, or
how much. these savings will be. In fact, when reviewing the
system of fines. appeals by violators to tribunal or ministerial
appointees, or possible further appeals to courts, it seems that
Bill C-61 could create additional costs.
Having understood this, honourable senators, we are prepared
to support Bill C-61 at this stage in the process.
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators. does any other
honourable senator wish to speak? If Senator Hays speaks now.
his speech will have the effect of closing the debate on this
motion for second reading.
Senator Hays: Honourable senators. I thank the senator
opposite for what I think were supportive comments, although I
noted her desire that the matter be dealt with further in
committee.
Motion agreed to and bill read second time.
REFERRED TO COMMITTEE

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, when shal this
bill be read the third time?
On motion of Senator Hays, bill referred to the Standing
Senate Committee on Agriculture and Forestry.

EXCISE TAX ACT
INCOME TAX ACT
BILL TO AMEND-SECOND READING

Hon. Peter A. Stollery moved the second reading of
Bill C-103, to amend the Excise Tax Act and the Income Tax
Act.
He said: Honourable senators. Bill C-103 resolves a problem
of which some of us who have been around for a few years are
well aware. It goes back to Grattan O'Leary's commission on the
magazine industry. The resulting bill stopped U.S. publishers
from doing that famous split run in which the issue was written
and produced in the United States. with their advertising, and
when it came to Canada they would drop the U.S. advertising
and use the same content to get Canadian advertising revenue.
I believe that issue was dealt with by Bill C-58 in the 1970s. I
was a member of the committee at that time.
This bill addresses a wrinkle which has arisen. Apparently,
Bill C-58 stopped material from physically being brought across
the Canadian border. However. that provision is being
circumvented by Sports Illustrated. which is beaming its product
by satellite into Canada. This bill closes that loophole. As
Senator Stewart says, it closes the heavens.

| Senatoi Rossiter |

Honourable senators, Bill C-103 is a measure in support of
Canadian magazines. The tax measure before us today updates a
long-standing policy of successive governments to recognize the
unique circumstances faced by Canadian periodicals.
More than 30 years ago, the 1961 Royal Commission on
Publications, more commonly referred to as the O'Leary
commission. examined the situation of the Canadian magazine
publishing industry. I know that many senators here will recall
that process.
After an in-depth study, they recommended the
implementation of policy measures designed to encourage the
flow of advertising revenue to the Canadian magazine industry.
This would allow the industry to operate from a more secure
financial footing. Canadian magazines must be fully prepared to
compete for readers with their international counterparts.
However, they cannot be expected to compete with their U.S.
counterparts for the limited number of Canadian advertising
dollars available. Canadian magazines must recover their costs in
a country of 27 million people. thus their production runs must
be proportionately smaller and at a higher cost per issue.
Their U.S. counterparts can recover their production costs in a
market 10 times larger. They produce larger print runs at a lower
unit cost and, therefore. need only charge Canadian advertisers a
rate that covers Canadian printing and administrative costs.
These rates could be substantially lower than Canadian magazine
publishers could charge for the same ad space.
This is a legally contentious issue which will. I understand, be
proceeding through the courts. so it is important to get some of
these facts on the record for what may be a prolonged legal issue.
In order to level the playing field, the government acted on
two
by
implementing
recommendations
O'Leary's
complementary measures in 1965. They are section 19 of the
Income Tax Act and tariff code 9958.
The first measure, section 19 of the Income Tax Act, allows a
deduction for an advertisement directed at the Canadian market
only if that advertisement is placed in a Canadian issue of a
magazine or newspaper that is, one, 75 per cent Canadian-owned
and controlled and, two. contains 80 per cent original editorial
content.
Tariff code 9958 is a measure directed at restricting the
entrants of split runs into the Canadian market. In a split-run
magazine, a publisher uses articles and other editorial material
prepared and paid for in the magazine's domestic market and
inserts advertising aimed at another market; for our purposes. the
Canadian market. Tariff code 9958 restricts the importing of
magazines containing advertisements directed at Canadians. It
authorizes Canada Customs to stop the entry into Canada of the
subsequent four issues of a magazine after the publication of an
issue that bas been deemed to be a split run. This effectively
discourages foreign publishers from exporting split runs into
Canada.

November 7, 1995

November 7, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

SENATE DEBATES

Before tariff code 9958 was introduced, virtually all foreign
magazines containing advertisements directed at Canadians were
printed in the country of origin and imported into Canada for
distribution. Tariff code 9958 has worked well for over 30 years.
In January 1993, Time Warner announced that it intended to
publish Sports Illustrated Canada.Sports Illustrated Canadais a

split-run edition that is printed in Canada, using text
electronically transmitted from the U.S. The editorial content of
Sports Illustrated Canada is largely the same as that of U.S.

editions of Sports Illustrated, but contains advertisements that
have been specifically chosen to reach a Canadian audience.
Tariff code 9958 is not applicable to Sports IllustratedCanada
because that magazine is printed in Canada, rather than being
imported. The publication of Sports Illustrated Canada has sent a
signal that it is now possible to contravene the spirit of tariff
code 9958 by using a technology that did not exist when the tariff
code was implemented.
The emergence of Sports IllustratedCanada as a new split run

magazine demonstrated the limitations of Canada's existing
policy instruments designed to support the magazine industry.
Accordingly, a task force on the Canadian magazine industry was
struck to examine the problem and to recommend new ways to
promote Canada's policy objectives for the magazine industry.
The task force on the Canadian magazine industry commissioned
a number of studies. These revealed the difficult challenges
inherent in the Canadian marketplace faced by the Canadian
magazine industry.
The most significant factors defining the environment in which
Canadian publishers compete for Canadian readers are the
penetration of the market by imported magazines; the relatively
small size of the Canadian population; the openness of Canadians
to foreign cultural products, particularly film and television; the
effect of the cover prices of imported magazines on the Canadian
price structure; newsstand competition from foreign magazines;
and the impact of overflow advertising on the potential
advertising market in Canada.

Magazines have two clients - the reader and the advertiser.
Thus, there are two streams of revenue - circulation revenues
from sales to readers and advertising revenues. Magazines with
large circulations attract advertisers. With these advertising
revenues, magazines can create editorial content to attract
readers. The task force on the Canadian magazine industry
reconfirmed that advertising revenue is by far the most important
revenue stream for Canadian magazines, accounting for
65 per cent of revenues. It supports the cost of the editorial
content and makes it possible for the publisher to improve and
increase editorial content and attract more readers.
One could make an interesting observation at this point. In the
city of Toronto, not only is the revenue from sales to readers
becoming less important, but give-away newspapers in Toronto
have had a huge impact on the revenues of regular newspapers.

2215

2215

They have developed enormous circulations with no circulation
revenue at all. The revenue comes entirely from advertising.
In effect, advertising is the lifeblood of the Canadian magazine
industry. This is as true in Canada as anywhere else. In Canada,
however, periodical publishers must attract advertising revenues
and readers in the face of tremendous competition from
American magazines for advertising revenues.
As the O'Leary commission stated:
If we hold that a periodical press is essential to the Canadian
nation, no more to be produced for us by outlanders than our
statute books, then we face an inescapable choice: either our
periodical press must have preserved for it enough Canadian
advertising to ensure its existence, or it must be subsidized
by the state.
Honourable senators. after reviewing the state of the magazine
industry in Canada, the task force issued its final report in March
1994. This is not the O'Leary commission, but the other task
force. Its main recommendation was that an excise tax be
imposed on split-run editions of periodicals.
In December of 1994, the govemment responded to the final
report of the task force and indicated its intention to implement
an excise tax on split-run editions. Bill C-103 will amend the
Excise Tax Act to implement this tax. The tax will apply to
split-run editions distributed in Canada that contain more than
20 per cent recycled editorial material and one or more
advertisements directed at Canadians. It will be imposed at a rate
of 80 per cent of the value of all the advertisements contained in
a split-run edition. Certain magazines that distributed split-run
editions in Canada prior to the creation of the task force will
receive limited grandfathering treatment.
Honourable senators, this is a tax measure of general
application. It will apply to any Canadian split-run edition
regardless of whether it is published by a Canadian or foreign
publisher. The government is not regulating the activities of
advertisers, printers, publishers or distributors. This measure
simply encourages Canadian advertisers to place advertisements
in magazines which have original content. In this way, the
government is promoting long-standing policy objectives
consistent with Canada's international trade obligations. The
measure applies to all split-run editions distributed in Canada
with little original editorial content regardless of country of
origin.
When the task force on the Canadian magazine industry was
initiated, the government indicated that it was prepared to
support its policy on magazines. Moreover, the government
stated that:
Should foreign publishers decide during the work of the task
force to undertake any new publishing activity which would
contravene or sidestep the government's policy objectives
for the magazine industry, they would do so at their own
risk.

In addition to its recommendation concerning the Excise Tax
Act, the task force made several other recommendations. These
included a recommendation that an anti-avoidance rule be added
to section 19 of the Income Tax Act. As I mentioned earlier,
section 19 of the Income Tax Act is one of the principal policy
instruments supporting the magazine industry. It allows
deductions for advertisements directed at the Canadian market
only if they are placed in Canadian issues of Canadian-owned
and controlled magazines or newspapers.

recognizes that access to Canadian advertising dollars is critical
to ensure the economic viability and the continued existence of
the Canadian magazine industry. Canadian advertising dollars
should support an indigenous Canadian magazine industry.

Bill C-103 will amend the Income Tax Act to add an
anti-avoidance rule to section 19. The purpose of this rule is to
ensure that magazines and newspapers that purport to be
Canadian are controlled, in fact, by Canadians.

Hon. Lowell Murray: Honourable senators, I thank the
Honourable Senator Stollery for having placed so thoroughly on
the record much of the background of this bill.

To summarize, the two measures contained in this bill will
ensure the continuing vitality of Canadian cultural expression.
They will ensure that Canadian magazines continue to flourish.
Canadians need Canadian magazines. They are a vital form of
cultural expression. They provide a channel for the flow of
Canadian ideas, information and views to Canadians. Canadian
magazines provide a medium for discourse.
As noted in the O'Leary report in 1961:
Only a truly Canadian printing press with the "feel" of
Canada and directly responsible to Canada can give us the
critical analysis, the informed discourse and dialogue which
are indispensable in a sovereign socicty.
Honourable senators. Canadians will continue to have access
to foreign as well as Canadian periodicals. Canadians are indeed
fortunate to have unparalleled access to publications from around
the world. Nothing in this bill would deny Canadians the right to
purchase magazines of their own choice. However, as noted by
the task force on the Canadian magazine industry. choice would
be lessened if there were no Canadian magazines.
Research conducted by the task force on the Canadian
magazine industry found no evidence that Canadian magazine
publishers are any less efficient than their U.S. counterparts. The
issue here is one of relative market size and economies of scale,
not of relative efficiency of markets or lack thereof in Canada.
It would be simplistic to suggest that the Canadian magazine
industry should take advantage of the economies of scale that
North American free trade offers. American popular culture is
part of the everyday life of Canadians, and so the editorial
content of American magazines is generally of interest to
Canadians.
Canadian popular culture and Canadian issues are not part of
the everyday life of Americans. Canadian magazines, if they
were to succeed in the U.S., would have to change their editorial
content so profoundly that they would no longer be important to
Canadian cultural products.
In closing, honourable senators. let me emphasize that this
government stands firmly behind the Canadian magazine
industrv and long-established magazine policy. The government

ISeiatoi Sioliel 1

The measures proposed in Bill C-103 will help maintain
Canada's long-standing policy of ensuring an adequate
advertising revenue base for the Canadian magazine industry. I
therefore urge members to ensure speedy passage of Bill C- 103.

I am very happy to sec Senator Davey in his seat this aftemoon
since hc was one of my principal tormentors on this issue when I
was Leader of the Government in the Senate. Actually, I think we
saw eye to eye on the issue at the time, and still do. because I
have no hesitation in declaring my support for the principle of
this bill.
I do not have very much to add to the historical background
that Senator Stollery has placed on the record. However, I will
offer a few comments before concluding my remarks and
presumably paving the way for the referral of this bill to the
Standing Senate Committee on Banking. Trade and Commerce.
Honourable senators, Senator Stollery has pointed out thai the
bill is contentious in legal terms. I have on my desk a legal brief
from a Toronto law firm which represents, I believe, the
publishers of Sports Illustrated.I have not had an opportunity to
read the brief, although I recall the same firm was active ai about
the time this issue first arose in 1993.

0

1520)

The committee should consider calling either the lawyers or
their client to hear what they have to say, not because I think the
committee should constitute itself as some kind of court to
adjudicate legal issues. however, if there are valid issues, there
may be remedies that the committee will want to consider.
As Senator Stollery has said, the main elements of the 1965
policy served us well for almost 30 years. Those two elements
were the special code in the Customs Tariff and section 19 of the
Income Tax Act. When in January of 1993 it was announced that
Sports Illustrated intended to go ahead with a so-called Canadian
edition, a test run of six, we found that the old policy was simply
inadequate to deal with new circumstances.
First. the
technology
proofs were
Canada and

customs code was inadequate to deal with the new
through which. as Senator Stollery said. the page
electronically transmitted from the United States to
then printed in Canada.

As for the income tax provision, it was still in place but
considered inadequate to protect Canadian magazines from not
just Sports /lustrated from others that would come along
but
taking advantage of the same technology and of the sane
loophole. if you will, in the law.

November 7, 1995

November7,
1995SENATE
DEBATES

It turfis ont that the first edition of Sports Illustrated took
about a quarter of a million advertising dollars out of Canada. It
does flot sound like a very large sum but, over five more issues. it
would add up. Further, if, as we aIl expected and as I believe
Time Wamner acknowledged, it was in their minds to go on to
51 issues a year, then we would be looking at a considerable sum
of money in the context of the perilous financial state of the
Canadian magazine industry.
Magazines depend, as Senator Stollery has pointed ont, upon
advertising for 65 per cent of their revenues. Canadian
magazines presently hold only a 40 per cent market share in this
country, or so it was the last time I looked.
Further to that, as 1 say, it was flot so much the Sports
lllustrated case in itself but the precedent which would be
created. There are some 40 United States periodicals available in
Canada with a circulation of more than 50,000 each. People
magazine, which is in the sanie family as Sports Illustrated, a
Time Wamner product, has a circulation of over 200,000. Clearly,
the situation was unsustainable in ternis of the economics of the
Canadian magazine industry and had to be dealt with.
Even the protections that we thonght we had under Investment
Canada proved to be inadequate. Time Warner was able to
persuade Investment Canada and obtain a ruling to the effect that
what they were doing with Sports Illustrated was flot setting up a
new business and therefore was flot reviewable by Investment
Canada. Investment Canada gave them a ruling saying that
because Tume Wamner already published a Canadian edition of
77me magazine in Canada, the Sports Illustrated case was really
the expansion of an existing business and therefore flot
reviewable.
The Custonis Tariff had proven to be inadequate. We could flot
see how it could be made to be effective in a situation of this
kind. AIl our advisors saw many ways in which it could be
circnmvented. The Investment Canada rules had proven to be
inadequate. Section 19 of the Income Tax Act, while it was still
in place, was not enough to do the job.
Sometime in early 1993, 1 believe it was in March, we
appointed the task force under the co-chairmanship of Roger
Tassé and Jeremiah Patrick O'Callaghan and put them to work. I
recali very clearly what we had in mind in appointing the task
force, and it was flot simply a neutral examination of the policy.
Mr. Beatty, the then Minîster of Communications, made it clear
that we wanted the policy brought up to date. We wanted to
match the new climate, particularly the new technological
climate, that was in existence. We encouraged Mr. Tassé and
Mr. O'Callaghan to bring in an interim report before the final
deadline of December 31, 1993. We were concemned that, now
that the door was open, there would be a fulI-scale invasion by
United States magazines looking to take advantage of this
situation.

2217
21

The interim report was presented in May of 1993. with two
recommendations only. One was that the goverfiment should
issue a policy statement reaffirming Canada's position on these
matters dating back to 1965 and making quite clear our intention
to take whatever steps would be necessary to block any further
invasion of this kind - as I say, pour décourager les autres.
The second recommendation was to clarify the Investment
Canada guidelines on this matter. As honourable senators may
recaîl, June 1993 was a rather busy month, politically. There was
a change of administration. Prime Minister Campbell took over
at the end of June.
In the first haif of July, the government acted on the two
recommendations in the interim report of the Tassé-O' Callaghan
task force. Monique Landry. then Minister of Communications,
issued the statement that the task force had recommended,
reaffirmiùng Canada's pnlicy in this matter and issuing, in effect, a
caution, a warning to any U.S. or other foreign periodical
publishers who might be tenipted to follow the same road as
Tume Wamner and Sports Illustrated had followed.
Second. and also in July 1993, the Hononrable Jean Charest,
who was then the minister in charge of Investment Canada, put
out a ministerial directive under the Investment Canada Act
entitled, "The Related Business Guidelines," which had the
desired effect so far as the Investment Canada situation was
concemned.
As Senator Stollery has pointed ont, the final report came in a
bit later than anticipated, sometime in early 1994. There were
10 or 12 recom mendations in the report. Two of the niost
important ones are being acted upon now with Bill C-103.
I have flot had an opportunity to read the legal brief which has
been filed by the solicitors for Tume Warner and Sports
Illustrated. However, 1 do hope that it will be canvassed by the
Banking, Trade and Commerce Committee when the bill is
before it for study.
1 also suggest that we give the bill more than a cursory
examination, flot becanse 1 have any particular problems with it,
but because of the importance of the policy context in which this
bill is being brought. Perhaps Mr. O'Callaghan and Mr. Tassé
could come and discnss the two recommendations which are
incorporated in this bill, as well as the other recommendations in
the task force report. Indeed, there may be other witnesses, sncb
as the Canadian Magazine Publishers Association that will want
to be heard.
We want to be sure we have an effective bill. We must be sure
that we have a bill that does the job we want it to do. In that
spirit, 1 simply indicate our approvai in principle and our desire
to see the bill go to the Standing Senate Committee on Banking,
Trade and Commerce.

Senator Stollery: Honourable senators. if no one else bas
anything to say at this point -

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators. 1 wish to intorm
you that if the Honourable Senator Stollery speaks now. bis
speech will have the effect of closing the debate on the motion
l'or second reading of this bill.
Motion agreed to, and bill read second time.

The bill before us today is useful for a number of' reasons. It
bas the effect of sending a very clear message to those who selI
drugs. especially wheii they operate in the immediate vicinity of
young people, on school property or inside sehools. The bill
provides that trafticking in drugs in an environment frequented
by young people constitutes an aggravating factor and. as a
result. the courts shaîl consider such factors when imposing a
sentence. This is one more way, and many others have already
been implemented. to prevent or try to prevent as many young
people as possible from becoming addicted to drugs.

REFERRED TO COMMITTEE

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators. when shahl this
bill be read the third time?
On motion of Senator Stollery. bill referred to the Standing
Senate Committee on Bankîng. Trade and Commerce.
[Translation]

CONTROLLED DRUGS AND SUBSTANCES BILL
SECOND READING

On the Order:
Resuming the debate on the motion of the Honourable
Senator Poulin, seconded by the Honourable Senator
Marchand, P.C.. for the second reading of Bill C-7, an Act
respecting the control of certain drugs. their precursors and
other substances and to amend certain other Acts and repeal
the Narcotic Control Act in consequence thereof.

Hon. Jean-Claude Rivest: Honourable senators. 1 would like
to draw your attention to thc importance of tbe legislation
proposed in Bill C-7. This bill concerns how we control a very
serlous social problem in modern society: drug use.
This may be surprising, but it may be the only way to control
this very serious social and human problem. The measures
proposed in this bill are one more attempt to deal with the
problem of drug trafficking but, and this is not only the case in
Canada but in ail western counitries. they fail to resoive the other
side of the problem: demand. Why do so many of our fellow
citizens in Canada and elsewhere. and especially young people,
use narcoties to try and experience what can only be the illusion
of happiness?
We should probably take a long bard look at the existing
demand for narcotics and drugs and at the structure and values of
our society. We should reahize that the economic and social
probleris facing society in terms of unemployment and the Iack
of a future for our young people have - and this should be our
primary concern - a deeply human dimension which explains
the current drug epidemic.
Bill C-7 is one of niany measures available to the govemment
to control the supply of drugs. The Parliament of Canada bas on
a number of occasions passed legislation to reinforce existing
inechanisms.

Bill C-7 allows something that is always rather controversial
with respect to basic freedoms. but validates a procedure that is
probably one of the most effective. and 1 am refening to police
infiltration of' networks engaging in the sale and distribution of'
narcoties. We are farniliar with this restriction on individual
freedoms. However. considering the importance and gravity ot
the problem, it is a restriction which in the meaning of the
Charter constitutes a reasonable way to proceed in that it gives
police forces a chance to infiltrate networks so as to eliminate
them as much as possible.
The bill goes into great detail. not only about the drugs we
know and often read about in the papers. but also the whohe
chemnical aspect of this question; in other words. there is a group
of products referred to as precursors which are used to make
certain compoundcs.
1 will flot read ail the schedules to the bill because this wouhd
tum into a lecture on pharmacy or chemistry. but there are any
number of products used by drug traffickers to upgrade the value
of the destructive merchandise they put on the market.
Honourable senators. 1 think the set of measures proposed in
Bill C-7 is very important. More particularhy. 1 want to stress the
concern the government probably has. and which is shared by
honourable senators. for having measures that are specifically
targeted to youngy people. That is probably where we shouhd start.
These measures will probably be more effective. in the
immediate and long term, in dealing with this problem.
Honourable senators, beyond these specitic administrative or
police measures to combat the scourge of drugs, 1 would hike to
say, on behaîf of aIl senators, how important it is in the present
context to encourage and preserve the many organizations
working throughout Canada to prevent this scourge and
rehabilitate those who have had probhems with drugs.
In Canada, and particularly in Quebec, there is a signiticant
number of vohunteers and others working to, help their fellow
citizens overcome these serious difficulties.
These volunteer drug prevention and drug victi m support
organizations are concerned at the moment because tbey often
depend a lot on public funds to hehp them continue their
humanitarian activities. In the context of the prescrnt budget
restrictions throLighout Canada. I express the wish. and I think I
speak l'or us ail. that there be no cuts to these initiatives. which

November 7.

1995

SENATE DEBATES

are absolutely vital in the field and probably provide prevention
and rehabilitation activities for victims of drug problems. When
you think about it, this sort of measure is much more effective
than simply increasing police action, which is absolutely vital
and specifically addressed by Bill C-7.
As I said at the start of my remarks, the problem with drugs is
not a police problem as such and probably not just a matter of
health, but, rather, a problem of human behaviour, of men,
women, young people and seniors living in a society which does
not always give the importance - and we know this all too
well - due to individual approaches and to the ambitions and
hopes people create for themselves and their family.
I think it important for the Senate to look at and begin to
consider the significance of the drug problem in today's society.
We must take all the necessary measures, regardless of the cost,
to support the volunteers and their organizations so they may
continue their work and ultimately try to reduce this scourge,
which, unfortunately, is one of the most distressing signs of our
modern world.
Hon. Marie-P. Poulin: Honourable senators, I thank Senator
Rivest for his relevant comments in strong support of Bill C-7.

2219

A case in point is the terrible death of three-year-old John
Ryan Turner of Miramichi, New Brunswick, in 1994. The neglect
and abuse of this little boy were well reported. John was
routinely kept in a harness, locked in a cupboard, and had socks
stuffed in his mouth to stifle his cries. When he died, John
weighed half the normal weight for his age, was covered in
bruises, and had broken bones. His father completely ignored
him, and his mother showed him hatred and contempt from the
day he was born. This abuse, neglect, and absence of love,
known as the "failure to thrive syndrome," afflicted little John
Ryan Turner, and ultimately led to his death and the trial and
conviction of his parents this past summer.
In 1977, Toronto and Ontario were horrified by the child abuse
neglect death of one-month-old Vicky Star Ellis. But for the
initiative of the coroner, Dr. Elie Cass, this death would have
passed unnoticed, as do many children's deaths. The five-week
inquest cost over $2 million. The mother, Deborah Ellis, was a
textbook case of an abused child having become an abusing
parent. Deborah had grown up brutally abused by the women in
her life, ber mother and ber grandmother.

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, when shall this
bill be read the third time?

In all, Deborah Ellis had six children, sired by different men.
Of these six, three died in her care, and a fourth nearly died.
Parrish, aged 17 months, drowned unattended in a bathtub;
Darlene, aged 11 months, died of neglect; and Vicky Star, barely
one month old, died of neglect. Charlene, aged two years, was
rescued 15 minutes from death by able medical and hospital
response. Of ber six children, three were apprehended, including
ber sixth child who was apprehended at birth.

On motion of Senator Poulin, bill referred to the Standing
Senate Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs.

Part of Deborah Ellis' disorder was ber compulsion to have
children. She defiantly said:

Motion agreed to and bill read second time.
REFERRED TO COMMITTEE

[English]

No one can stop me having children - not the judge, or the
coroner, or the Children's Aid Society.
CHILD ABUSE AND MORTALITY
INQUIRY-DEBATE ADJOURNED

Hon. Anne C. Cools rose pursuant to notice of Wednesday,
July 12, 1995:
That she will call the attention of the Senate to the issues
of child mortality, child abuse neglect deaths (CAN deaths),
child abuse and child maltreatment in Canada, including the
physical injury of children, parental violence and
aggression, child neglect, the "failure to thrive" syndrome,
psychological injury to children, parental manipulation of
children, and misadventure suffered by children in Canada.
She said: Honourable senators, I would like to draw to your
attention child suffering and abuse in Canada, and in particular
the increasing number of deaths and cases of abuse of children at
the hands of their parents.

About ber personality problem, Dr. Clive Chamberlain, then
director of the Family Court Clinic, wrote:
Since part of Mrs. Ellis' personality disorder was a
compulsion to have children, and since nothing could be
done to prevent it, she should have another chance, through
Vicky, to learn how to mother for the sake of children yet
unborn.
Little Vicky's life was to be an educational tool for Deborah
Ellis, whose life was a tangle of pathologies. The judge returned
newborn Vicky to ber mother. This baby was dead within a
month.
In 1976, a year prior, in Sarnia, Ontario, there was the terrible
case of Kim Anne Popen's death at 18 months. Kim suffered
physical and emotional abuse, and ber condition was well known
to police, social and health care workers. She died. The mother,
Jennifer Popen, pleaded guilty to manslaughter and was
sentenced to seven years' imprisonment.

Parental aggression. violence, infanticide and neglect are too
common. The most defenceiess people in our society, the
chiidren. are the innocent victims.
Honourable senators. the history of these untèrtunate children
is weli documented and appears in much literature. Equaiiy weil
known were the "kiiling nurses" or the "she-butchers." as they
were calied in England; those persons who acted as wet nurses,
midwives, and home abortionists. Alix Kirsta, in her book
Deadiier Than th'e Maie. writes that:
.the scandai of Britain's 'iying-in houses', where babies
were 'arranged' to be stiiiborn. was not exposed until 1868
when it turned out that large areas of' London's most
saiubrious districts~. for exampie St. Mary iebone. were a
bot-bed of infant massacre and casual baby 'disposaI'. with
corpses often to be found in public parks and ditches.
In 1845, Benjamin Disraeli, who had been Prime Minister of
Great Britain. as the United Kingdom was then known. wrote in
his novel Svbil that:
Infanticide is practised as extensively and legaiiy in Engiand
as it is on the banks of the Ganges.
In Toronto, at the turn of the century. when a pond on the
campus of the University of Toronto was drained. the bonies of
many newborn infants were discovered.
On March 2. 1911I. in the House of Commons. Dr. J.B. Black.
member trom Nova Scotia. stated:
I have some figures here which wiii probabiy astonish some
of us. In the city of' Ottawa there were born last year. to the
3ist of October. 1910, 2,100 chiidren. Ninety percent oif
those shouid have iived. 0f those born. 626 died. or neariy
32 per cent of al] the chiidren born in Ottawa up to that date
died. This is the highest rate of mortaiity among infants in
any city in the worid where statisties are kept.
In 1912, tbe Legislative Assembly of Ontario pubiished a
report entitled Infant MortalitY surveying intant mortality in
Canada. The report said:
How many of the citizens of Ontario know that we buried
nineteen babies under one year oid every day in Ontario in
1909. or 6.932 -nearly 7.000 - in that one year?
About iliegitimate chiidren, the report stated that:
.their death rate is almost twice as great as the deatb rate
of legitimate chiidren. That death rate is often simpiy
murder, and a slow and cruel murder of a heliess victim.
Honourable senators. an enormous advance in the detection of
child abuse came about by the use of radioiogy - X-ray
technoiogy. In 1946. American John Caffey boidly and braveiy
declared bis observations regarding the association between
subdurai haematoma. abnormai X-ray changes in the long bories
oif chiidren. and injury. stating that these traumnas were not caused

tSenaloi

CL)ok

I

by accidents but were wiifuily inflicted. These revelations caused
much shock. The examination of chiidren's injuries was
continued by another American. Dr. Frederie Silverman. and
cuiminated in the work of Americans Dr. Ray Heifer and
Dr. Henry Kempe. who coined the term "the battered child
syndrome" in 1961.
One hundred years prior. Dr. Ambroise Tardieu's work in
forensic medicine at the Paris morgue concluded that chiidren
bad suffered greatly at the hands of their parents. and that the
injuries did not match their parents' accounts. In 1860. he
published that:
...those defenceiess unfortunate chiidren. ...that their lives,
.tortures
hardly begun. sbould be nothing but a long agony. ..
before wbich even our imagination recoils in horror, sbould
consume their bodies ...shorten their lives. and, finaiiy. the
most unbelievabie thing of al., that the executioners of these
chiidren shouid be more often than not the very people who
gave them life. This is one of the most terri fying probiems
that can trouble the heart of man.
Honourabie senators, these words of more than a century ago
are just as relevant today. Between April and Juiy. 1995. The
Ottawa Citi7,en and The Toronto Sun newspapers reported
10 cases of death involving il chiidren. These two newspapers
alone reported nine cases of severe abuse and negiect invoivingë
over 20 children. These numbers reflect the reports of just two
newspapers in four months in two cities. The truc number across
Canada is unidentifiable and unspeakabie.
Other newspaper reports illustrate the nature and frequency of
chiid abuse and negict deaths. On March 29. 1995. The Toronto
Star reported the death oif' i -month old Ashiey Johnson. The
niother. 23-year-old Taminy Johnson, had ieft Ashiey and ber
three-year-oid sister unattended in the bathroorn. Minutes later.
Ashiey was found drowned in the bathtub. Four years prior.
Jobnson's first child had nearly died under identicai
circumstances. Johnson's four children were sired by four
different men.
The Toronto Star reported that the court was toid:
Had it not been for the previous case. Johnson probabiy
wouid not have been charged with a criminal offence...
Tammy Johnson was given a suspended sentence and
probation for three years.
On Juiy 5. 1995. The Toronto Sun reported the story of the
so-called "Toronto suitcase baby."" The body of a black
nine-month-old boy was found stuffed in a suitease behind some
bushes in a Toronto park. The newspaper reported that the
I 6-year-oid mother found the infant dead. and kept the body for
four days before disposing of it. The San reported a police
detective as saying:
- ... it's my opinion we're not anticipating any criminai
charges" inciuding one of' improperly disposing of human
she's sutfered eniotugh.*"
remains... Itik

November 7,

1995

November 7. 1995

SENATE DEBATES

SENATE DEBATES

On July 15, 1995, The Toronto Star reported that little
two-year-old Tyrell Noble fell 13 stories to his death through a
tom screen. His mother a single mother of three. was not in the
room when Tyrell fell. The Toronto Star quoted a police sergeant
who said:
"It appears to be nothing more than a tragic accident."
The mother was not charged in Tyrell's death.
As reported in The Toronto Sun of July 7, 1995. a Toronto
woman broke two of her four-year-old daughter's ribs and hit her
in the face after the child spilled some juice. Initially, the woman
blamed the injuries on her husband. Later, she pleaded guilty to
assault charges and was sentenced to 90 days in jail.
Honourable senators, in 1986, Dr. Cyril Greenland, McMaster
University professor emeritus, did a study of child abuse neglect
deaths from records of the Ontario Chief Coroner's office. In an
article, "Preventing Child Abuse and Neglect Deaths: The
Identification and Management of High Risk Cases," he reported
that:
The risk of death due to CAN -

child abuse and neglect deaths -

- is highest in the first year of life. The Ontario data,
confirmed by most other studies, show that well over half of
the victims...died before the age of 12 months. An
additional 25% ...died before the age of two years. Only five
per cent of the victims were over the age of five years.
He also said:
Natural parents were the perpetrators in 63 per cent of the
deaths; mothers were involved in 38 deaths, fathers in
13 deaths and both parents in 12 deaths.
Honourable senators, Statistics Canada, in its Juristat 1994
Homicide Statistics, devoted an entire section to infant homicide
entitled "First year of life holds greatest risk of being victim of
homicide." Honourable senators, I repeat this fact: Those at
greatest risk of homicide, of being wilfully killed, are babies
under one year old. Statistics Canada reports that 27 babies under
one year old were victims of homicide in 1994. This represented
a significant increase over the previous 10 years' annual average
of 20. Of these 27 babies who were killed last year, 20 were
killed by parents.
These data exclude many child abuse deaths. Child death
caused by parents' criminal negligence and failure to provide the
necessities of life and starvation, both of which are criminal
offences, are not classified as homicides and are not counted in
these data. Statistics Canada states:
In Canada, homicide is classified as first degree murder,
second degree murder, manslaughter or infanticide. Deaths

caused by criminal negligence, suicide, accidental or
justifiable homicide are not included in the definition.
In addition, many of the children's deaths caused by parental
neglect are not counted in the 596 total homicides for the year
1994.
The Globe and Mail of August 3. 1995, expressed this
concern:
...the truth may be worse than the police statistics reveal.
With the growing attention to child abuse has come a
suspicion that some deaths previously categorised as
accidental or unexplained may have been homicides.
Statistics Canada reported that of the 27 homicides of babies
under one year old, seven mothers were charged with infanticide.
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable Senator Cools, I am sorry
to inform you that your time has expired.
Senator Cools: May 1, with leave by honourable senators,
finish my remarks?
The Hon. the Speaker: Is leave granted?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Senator Cools: Section 233 of the Criminal Code states:
A female person commits infanticide when by a willful
act or omission she causes the death of her newly-born
child, if at the time of the act or omission she is not fully
recovered from the effects of giving birth to the child and by
reason thereof or of the effect of lactation consequent on the
birth of the child her mind is then disturbed.
Honourable senators, there is no medical relationship between
lactation and murderous behaviour. The significant fact is the
diminished responsibility and the slight sanctions granted
women, even though some very brutal and premeditated murders
are the result. Sometimes sanctions are as light as three months'
probation and suspended sentences.
Confronted with the grim realities contained in a century's
account of child misfortune and misadventure, statistics, reports,
studies, inquiries, victims and deaths, and with the significant
revenues spent on child protection, it seems unimaginable that
the number of infant murders for 1994 reported by Statistics
Canada has increased from 18 in 1992 to 27 in 1994, an increase
of 50 per cent, and that children should continue to die at the
hands of their parents.
In British Columbia, the judicial inquiry by Judge Thomas
Gove into the death of five-year-old Matthew Vaudreuil is
continuing. Matthew suffered severe beatings at the hands of his
mother, Verna Vaudreuil, including one which broke nine of his
ribs. before the final lethal beating that killed him. Verna
Vaudreuil is serving a four-year prison term.

What is tragic and disturbing is that the British Columbia
Department of Social Services was aware of Matthew's abuse. A
Vancouver Sun article of December 20, 1994, said:
Provincial court Judge Thomas Gove has been asked to
determine why the ministry could not protect the boy from
his mother despite repeated complaints to the ministry that
he was suffering horrendous abuse.
Honourable senators. there were 60 protection reports about
this child. The first one was written the day he was born and the
sixtieth just two days before his death. Matthew had been seen by
health professionals at least 48 times, and his mother and he had
received the services of financial aid workers. home support
workers, mental health workers. public health nurses,
psychologists. foster parents and 16 child protection workers
over the course of five years. Matthew Vaudreuil's history of
maternal neglect and abuse was well known, and yet he died. The
troubling fact is that Matthew's case was not an anomaly. Judge
Gove explained in The Vancouver Sun of June 7, 1995. that:

At first. I thought that my job was to investigate Matthew's
life and death alone. But after 11 weeks of formal hearings
and 130 witnesses, it became painfully clear to me that
Matthew's story was not an isolated case. The more I dug.
and the more people I talked to. the more I realized that the
errors which contributed to his death were not just
anecdotal, but were systemic in nature.
He added:
... the unprincipled, dysfunctional and inefficient
system...contributed to the suffering and death of Matthew,
and of many others like him.
Honourable senators, 20 years earlier another judge in Ontario,
Judge Ward Allen, in the inquiry into the 1976 death of little Kim
Anne Popen - and I say a "little" because I worked in the field,
and "little" is how we referred to these children at the time
had also concluded that:
Various departments, agencies and personnel of the
Province of Ontario failed the child.
Honourable senators, child abuse and neglect are far too
common. Daily, one observes yelling, scolding, hitting, slapping,
kicking and yanking, acted out by parents - usually mothers in public places. Many think that this behaviour is both normal
and acceptable: that it is merely discipline or tough love. not at
all like the stories in the news. Honourable senators, it is
maltreatment, the consequences of which will remain with that
child well into its adult years. Some scars will never heal. The
physical and psychological damage done to children is profound.
A newly emerging form of child abuse is that from parents
involved in matrimonial and custodial disputes. Parents use their

I Senaoir Cooli.

1

children as bargaining tools, manipulating them to their own
advantage. causing parental alienation of the other parent. With
respect to children's pain and suffering during divorce and
custody disputes. Dr. Hazel McBride, a Toronto area
psychologist, said that children are "...put up as a prize, or used
as a weapon."
Honourable senators, those who are maltreated learn to abuse.
As Judge Gove advocated, we must ensure that those in the child
protection system. those whose responsibility it is to protect
children, have undivided loyalty to the safety and well-being of
the child - that is, undivided loyalty to the best interests of the
child.
On motion of Senator Berntson, debate adjourned.

MINISTERIAL RESPONSE
TO SENATE COMMITTEE REPORTS
INQUIRY-DEBATE ADJOURNED

Hon. Pat Carney rose pursuant to notice of Tuesday,
October 31, 1995:
That she will call the attention of the Senate to the issue
of ministerial response to Senate Committee reports, in
particular, noting that on July 5, 1995, as Chairman of the
Standing Senate Committee on Energy. the Environment
and Natural Resources, I submitted a copy of the
Committee's report entitled "Pull up! Pull up!: An interim
Report on the Safety Implications of Automated Weather
Observation Systems (A.W.O.S.)'" to the Minsters of
Fisheries and Oceans, Environment and Transport, and
asked for a response to our recommendations, and that, to
date, none of these Ministers have issued a response.
She said: Honourable senators, on October 3 I I drew the
attention of the Senate to the failure of ministers to respond to
senatorial committee reports. I specifically dealt with the report
of the Standing Senate Committee on Energy, the Environment
and Natural Resources, and our report called "Pull up! Pull up!:"
An interim Report on the Safety Implications of Automated
Weather Observation Systenis (A.W.O.S.)." The latter report
dealt with some of the consequences, or perceived consequences,
of the government's decision to withdraw staff from weather
stations used by Transport Canada and Environment Canada.
I pointed out at that time that although our report had asked for
a ministerial response by October 31, only one minister had
acknowledged receipt of the letter: no minister had actually
responded.
Honourable senators, I feel strongly that the Senate might wish
to take a look at this issue on the failure of certain ministers to
respond, the boycotting of the Senate by other ministers, and the
effect that that has on our work.

November 7,

1995

SENATE DEBATES

Our notice of inquiry must have prompted the Minister of
Fisheries and Oceans, Brian Tobin, or his staff to respond
because on November 6, I received a letter signed by the
minister, or at least his signature machine. The letter was in reply
to our letter dated July 5, 1995, concerning the report. His letter
stated that his department is participating with Transport Canada
and Environment Canada in the preparation of a joint response to
the report, which is being coordinated by Transport Canada, and
that this response will be forwarded to the standing committee on
behalf of three departments.
Honourable senators, that is not a good enough response, four
months after the ministers had been asked to respond to an issue
which affects the safety of Canadians, particularly Canadians
travelling beyond urban centres and who rely on air
transportation. Canadians, such as farmers, rely for their
livelihood and their safety on weather reports. It is not good
enough, four months later, to say that the response is in the mail
and coming later.
I urge the Senate to consider the fact that this is not just
something that is happening to our committees: other committees
are also being ignored by the responsible ministers.
Honourable senators, I wish to draw the attention of my
colleagues to the fact that, while ministers may be ignoring this
report, we have had responses to the report from mayors,
municipalities, cities and municipal associations right across the
country, many of them from AWOS sites, supporting the
evidence contained in the report that the AWOS system is
considered unsafe. I want to draw to the attention of honourable
senators some of the concerns of these towns and cities.
In order for honourable senators to understand the issue more
clearly, I want to review the basic recommendations of our
report. I will not read them all into the record, but I will refer to
the prime recommendations.
Honourable senators, our committee recommended that, since
safety is the prime consideration, AWOS equipment must be
proven to be at least as accurate and reliable as the human
observation-equipment mix it is intended to replace before
human observers are removed. Americans have had similar
problems with their equipment. The office of their Auditor
General has suggested that possibly the automated equipment on
which they have spent hundreds of millions of dollars will never
be operational.
Our second recommendation was that the current moratorium
on the commissioning of AWOS sites be solution-driven and not
date-driven, as it is currently, and that no additional AWOS sites
be either installed or commissioned and no human observers be
removed until members of user communities are satisfied that
such actions allow them to meet safety requirements.
I should tell honourable senators that we have had other
correspondence from pilots indicating that this moratorium is not
being honoured by Transport Canada. We will bring that
information to the attention of the Senate at a later date.

2223

Our third recommendation was that the moratorium be
extended to include the proposed destaffing of lightstations, to
ensure that human observers remain in place until automated
equipment performs as well in the provision of local weather
information.
Since that recommendation was made, the lightstation keeper
at Nootka has recently pulled a local priest out of the water, a
famous and valuable person who serves the West Coast
community, and who, of course, was involved in the performance
of his duties when the lightkeeper saved his life.
Another recommendation of the committee was that, during
the moratorium, all AWOS users, not just those involved in
aviation, be consulted in order to ensure that the replacement of
human observers with AWOS meets their operational safety
requirements. That is because, while Transport Canada is
allegedly talking to some of the aviation users, the other users,
such as the agricultural community, are not being consulted.
The last major recommendation was that Transport Canada
return the human observers to all sites from which they were
removed in favour of AWOS systems until problems with AWOS
are resolved and performance criteria developed in consultation
with users are met, with safety of the travelling public in all parts
of the country being the overriding concern.
That recommendation was based on the information we were
given. that the departments involved had reinstated humans in
large urban centres, such as Edmonton and Montreal, but had
replaced humans with AWOS systems in smaller rural centres.
Apparently, the lives of urban Canadians are considered more
valuable than the lives of people who live in non-urban or rural
Canada.
We also asked the three departments that are replacing human
observers with automated weather observation systems Transport Canada, Environment Canada and Fisheries and
Oceans - to coordinate their policies and, in an open and
transparent way, to ensure that the cumulative impact of these
changes does not endanger the safety of the travelling public. We
have asked for the response by October. As I pointed out, we are
still waiting.
To give honourable senators a sense of the flavour of the
response to our report, the City of Thompson, Manitoba which is heavily reliant on air transportation - has written Doug
Young, the Minister of Transport, to say that the council endorses
the interim report of the Senate committee, and they go on to say
in their letter:
We would ask you to give your utmost consideration to
the recommendation in the report for the re-installation of
manned weather stations. It is our opinion, given the
information contained in the Senate Report concerning
Automated Weather Observation Systems, that it is only a
matter of time before the inaccuracies of this system will
cause a disaster. We do not want such a tragedy to occur in
our community or any other community in Canada and we
are sure you don't either.

Please heed the wamnings and recommendations containcd
in the report for the sake of tbe travelling public.
That is signed by tbe mayor. 1 remind honourable senators that
the pilots' union, CALPA. came before our committee to say that
the AWOS system, which was put in place without adequate
testing. is "an accident waiting te bappen."
We also rcceived a letter from Kelowna, Britisb Columbia.
Kelowna's Mountain Weathcr Station Office is still staffed, and it
is one of the two in B.C., 1 believe. which will not be an
AWOS-only site. Kelowna does net have a concern about its own
safety. However, the mayor of the city bas written:
...I1do have misgivings about the number of fully automated
sites planned across the country. and would agrec with tbe
recommendations of the Standing Senate Committee on
Energy. the Environment and Natural Rcsources.
He thanks us for an informative report and for the oppertunity
to comment.
Let me now move on te Saskatcbewan, in wbich, 1 am sure.
our deputy bouse leader is interested.
Senator Berntson: Yes, vcry much.
Senator Carney: The Town of Meadow Lake, Saskatchewan.
wrote us te say that tbe council bas recently passed a resolution
oppesing the placement ef an AWOS at tbeir local airport and
that:
Experience appears te show tbat tbese systems are
unreliable and a possible safety tbreat te members of' tbe
aviation in<lustry.

I weuld point eut te senators tbat tbey are not just taking our
word on tbis but tbe word et tbe people wbo live in their
cemmunities.
The mayor of' tbe Town of Daupbin bas written te say that
Dauphin was one of tbe first recipients of tbe AWOS system. and
they have found it te be unreliable. The mayer's letter reads. in
part:
There is ne doubt that this systemn of reperting weather
conditions is at times unsafe for the air traveller. It is logical
te have AWOS replaced with bumans in the interim until
new software is developed by DOT te address the
deficiencies. Keep up the good work.
The City of Ottawa toek the time te write te us. The mayor of
Ottawa points eut that. although this is net an area of the city's
jurisdictien. it is a matter of great importance te ensure the safety
of' al] those travelling te the Ottawa area and that, therefore. she
concurs with the committee's recommcndation. wbich is a
thoughtful note tor ber te send te us.
1 have already spoken te Senater Adams, who is in the
chambher tedax. During its meeting on Septeniber 1l. the
mnunicipal ity of' Iqal Lit i n the N .W.T. passed a resol ution

ISeiitor cai fe\

1

supporting the Senate's position that weather stations in
Yellowknife and Iqaluit remain open after their suggested closing
date of April 1997 and pointing out that the N.W.T. Association
of Municipalities had made similar representations to the
minister.
Gander. Newfoundland. sent us a letter, signcd by the mayor.
saying that:
Considering the implications to our community both from
an environmental accuracy, and human resources
perspective, the Town of Gander is greatly concerned that
the ongoing assessment of the AWOS systemn bc conducted
with great concern and accuracy for the weather reporting
system in our country.
Her letter talks about some of the actions that the town of
Gander has taken to discuss the implications of the AWOS
system and feels that:
While ...the aviation industry...is a critical compenent of our
community. ai aspects of ground, air and especially sea
transportation wiIl be affccted within our province.
The mayor writes that she is looking forward with anticipation
to, the final report of the committee. 0f course, we cannot do that
final report until we hear from the ministers concerned.
We also have a letter fromn Prince Albert, Saskatchewan,
signed by the acting city clerk, saying that the copy of the
committee's report was provided to the mayor and city council
and was considered by the city council at its last meeting. The
letter goes on te state:
At that time. City Council agreed to support the
recommendations of the Standing Senate Committee on the
safety implications of Automated Wcather Observation
Systems. In that regard. the six recommendations included
with the Interim Report have been supported.
They wish te be kept informed.
Next door. in the province of Alberta, the City of Calgary
wrote to, us on this issue as well. It is signed by the mayor. The
mayor's letter says that the Calgary Transportation Authority was
asked te look at the report and that:
The CTA bas contirmed that the aviation community bas
been experiencing [aIse and inaccurate weather repovting
from AWOS and that this bas given risc to concerns about
tlight safety. This is particularly critical in Alberta where.
because of the close proximity of the Rocky Mountains, the
weather can be very changeable and bas the potential te
deteriorate quickly.
The letter goes on te say:
Under present circumstances. we also sec the value of'
having human observers on site who have the ability te
interact witb pilots about important questions related te
present and incoming \veather conditions.

November 7, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

The mayor of Edmonton also wrote us and expressed concern
about the decision to discontinue manned weather services. You
will remember that in Edmonton humans were reinstated after it
was learned that pilots going into Edmonton Municipal Airport
were using the local brewery sign to read the weather because the
AWOS system was unreliable.

Senator Carney: The Association of Yukon Communities had
already passed a resolution opposing an AWOS in Mayo and in
Whitehorse in May, before our hearings had begun.
...The Association feels strongly that it makes absolutely

no sense to do this since Transport Canada has found
AWOS to be unreliable and has initiated further research to
see if they can be made workable and safe.

The mayor's letter says:

The City of Winnipeg, Manitoba, takes this position:

We are pleased that your committee has recommended the
return of human observers to all sites from which they were
removed, until problems with AWOS are fully resolved. We
are also pleased that your committee has recommended that
performance criteria be developed in consultation with
aviation users with the safety of the travelling public being
the overriding concern.

...Within the City we have had very little direct
experience with AWOS technologies. As the report
indicates the City of Winnipeg is one of the sites comprised
of human observation with AWOS assistance...
In the interests of public safety I support al] of the
recommendations except the third (lightstations) -

The mayor adds:
We look forward to a positive resolution of this problem.
I referred earlier to the N.W.T. Association of Municipalities
which now represents 100 per cent of all eligible municipalities.
They have expressed concern over the safety implications of
AWOS. Mayor Bevington wrote to Minister Doug Young in a
letter copied to our committee:
...There have been many stories that the AWOS reported
weather conditions differed from actual conditions at the
airport. Suppose AWOS gave inadequate weather
information to an airline that supplies service once a week
to a remote community. That community may be left
without vital supplies for weeks before another flight could
return. Add to this the fact that air medivac is the only
source of travel for medical emergencies in many northern
municipalities.
Given the information contained in the Senate Report
concerning the Automated Weather Information Systems it
is only a matter of time before the inaccuracies of this
system cause a disaster. Your department must realize the
impacts of imposing the use of such a system could be. It is
with this thought that the N.W.T. Association of
Municipalities fully endorses, through the attached
resolution, the Interim Report entitled "Pull Up! Pull Up!"
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable Senator Camey, I hesitate
to interrupt, but I must inform you that your time is up.
Senator Carney: I would like leave of the Senate to finish my
remarks.
The Hon. the Speaker: Is leave granted, honourable senators?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.

2225

-

Winnipeg is a little short on lightstations - and fifth (unstaffed/AWOS-only sites) which do not
pertain to the situation in Winnipeg.
Finally, the report and your covering letter make
reference to the safety concerns of the travelling public and
this is an obvious concern. It is hoped that Winnipeg will
grow into an important multi-modal cargo destination and
Winnipeg International Airport is a key component of these
plans. To the extent that accurate weather information
promotes safety of cargo flights, this should also be a
concern.
Watson Lake has also written to us:
As Safety has to be the prime consideration these Senate
Committee recommendations must be accepted by
Government, otherwise we are putting a price on human
life, a dangerous precedent for a Govemment to take.

The letter goes on to describe the situation in Watson Lake.
From Ontario, the Town of Geraldton sent a letter signed by
the airport manager:
I...have heard many comments, mostly negative, from
pilots that have had to use it due to it being the only source
of weather in some locations.
The main concern portrayed to me is that the system is
not reliable and does not always give the true weather
picture. The equipment that the pilots have come into
contact with is only able to give weather observations
within the immediate proximity of the station and is unable
to depict weather inbound i.e. thunderstorms. Another
concern is that the ceilometer currently in use cannot always
differentiate between rain, snow, bugs, smoke, fog, etc.

We have also had letters from regional airports in
Waterloo-Guelph agreeing that the automated systems were
prematurely installed and that human observers were removed
from the system before it was proven reliable.
That is a summary. honourable senators. of some of the
responses to our report. In view ot the response from so many of
the municipalities across the country, from coast to, coast to coast.
it is particularly reprehensible that the ministers have failed to
respond to our concernis in a timely manner to deal with this issue
of the safety of the travelling public. I draw it to the attention of
the Senate. We. as the upper chamber. should deal with the issue
of ministerial response to our reports. We will keep honourable
senators informed of other responses to our report as we have the
opportunity to do so.

Yukon those responses which corne from his part of the country.
Perhaps that would be a reasonable suggestion for ail senators.
that they should receive any responses which originated in their
particular regions. 1 also would be happy to send other letters to
any senator who requests them.
The messages in ail the letters are similar. They are afraid of
AWOS and they want us to pursue the work before our
committee to ensure that the system is safe and that human
observers are kept in place until that safety is proven.
On motion of Senator Hébert, debate adjoumned.

AGRICULTURE AND FORESTRY
NOTICE 0F MOTION TO AUTIIORIZE COMN4ITTEE

Hon. Paul Lucier: Honourable senators, 1 bave some
questions. First. 1 want to commend Senator Carney and her
committee tor their work on their report. The impending
disasters which she described today hit very close to home. My
son is a pilot in the Northwest Territories. 1 discuss this issue
with him on a regular basis. There is much concern for safety. It
is tough enough flying up there when everything is going right.
and they do not need any more hazards placed in their way.
Perhaps Senator Camney could suppiy me with copies of the
correspondence received. particularly from the two associations
in the Northwest Territories and the Yukon. It may be helpful f'or
ail senators to have that information.

Senator Carney: Some letters have been forwarded to
committee members. Senator Adams is on our committee. 1
would be happy to lorward to the honourable senator from the

TO STUDY THE PRESENT STATE AND FUTURE
0F AGRICULTURE AND AGRI FOOD
Leave having been given to reveil to Notices of Motions:

Hon. Dan Hays: Honourable senators, 1 give notice that on
Wednesday next, November 8, 1995. 1 will move:
That the Standing Senate Committee on Agriculture and
Forestry be authorized to examine the present state and the
future of agriculture and agri-food in Canada; and
That the committee table its report no laier than
June 30, 1996.
The Senate adjourned until Wednesday. November 8. 1995. at
1:30)p.m.

2227

THE SENATE
Wednesday, November 8, 1995
The Senate met at 1:30 p.m., the Speaker in the Chair.
Prayers.

SENATORS' STATEMENTS
REMEMBRANCE DAY

We are what we are today and we have what we have today
because of the people we honour on Remembrance Day. Only if
we remember can we hope to give meaning to their sacrifice.
Honourable senators, we cannot help but reflect this week. as
we grieve over the tragic assassination of Israeli Prime Minister
Yitzhak Rabin, who died in his efforts to secure a truly lasting
peace for the Middle East. His assassination serves as a reminder
of what history has taught us: that peace bas been lost because
nations, again and again, did not realize it is their common cause
and their common work.

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, it is a privilege to rise in this house today in
anticipation of Remembrance Day, which occurs this weekend.
On Saturday, Canadians will gather in communities large and
small across this country, in every province and territory, at
military cemeteries throughout the world, and here in Ottawa at
the National War Memorial. We will gather to honour the
memory of those who died in the service of Canada, and to
rededicate ourselves in the cause for which they fought. We will
commemorate the sacrifice of the men and women who served
Canada during the First World War, the Second World War, the
Korean War, and this year we mark the fiftieth anniversary of the
end of the Second World War and the return to an era of peace.

Honourable senators, postwar Canada bas chosen to make
peace its cause. We were partners in that first United Nations
peacekeeping mission in the Middle East, and our service
throughout the world bas been unbroken since. It comes at a
price - the lives of 103 Canadian peacekeepers since the end of
the Second World War and, most recently, in Bosnia. Thus each
year, November 1l must be for Canadians, a day not only for
remembrance and recognition, but for dedication to the hard and
patient work of finding solutions before the battle starts.

Some of those Canadians wili know in a very personal way
about the sacrifices that were made. They will recall the faces,
the laughter, the tears and the voices of those they knew.
Inevitably, however, honourable senators, as the years pass, more
and more who participate in these events take their recollections
only from the history books.

Hon. Noël A. Kinsella: Honourable senators, each year on the
eleventh day of the eleventh hour of the eleventh month,
Canadians from coast to coast to coast, in our villages, towns and
great cities, gather around local memorials to mark with
remembrance the sacrifice of Canadian men and women who
have served in the cause of freedom and justice and the ongoing
struggle for peace. It is good that we take time to pause and
remember, not only in terms of the grand history upon which we
all reflect at the time, but in terms of the occasion. It is one
occasion when our solidarity as a people, with all our differences
because of where we live in Canada, our diverse heritage and
other characteristics that constitute our roots, comes together in a
remarkable, unified manner to recall the sacrifices made by our
brothers and sisters in this country.

With every passing year, therefore, it becomes more vital that
we keep that memory alive and bright, as we saw last June in
Holland, where our returning veterans were welcomed with such
an outpouring of warmth, generosity and gratitude. We could not
help but be touched by the young people of Holland who
understood, much more than did our own young people, about
the tragedy of war, the emotion of liberation and VE day through
the memories of their parents and grandparents. We Canadians
must make a more concentrated effort to ensure that our children
and grandchildren are taught to remember what their families
endured in order to protect our future.
Honourable senators, Canadians of this generation have lived
their whole lives in a nation at peace, and it is dangerously easy
to take our freedoms for granted. However, peace and freedom
were both purchased for us with the sweat, the tears and the
blood of those who fought to preserve them. So many died in
those historic battles; many more came home in some way
scarred from their experience, but filled with the strength and the
courage to pick up their lives and contribute to their families and
to their country.

I wish all colleagues in this house a meaningful day on
Saturday as you share it with the people whom you represent in
this chamber.

* (1340)

We join with those around the world who mark these events in
a symbolic way by wearing the flower from Flanders, which
Canadians see as an important symbol of Remembrance Day and
the sacrifice.
Honourable senators, many of the children in our schools
across Canada have not experienced the tragedy of war. Happily,
they are children of an era of peace in our country. Nevertheless,
if you visit these schools, you will see on the windows and walls
their drawings of the poppy. The symbol of the poppy represents
a kind of coming together, of forgetting our differences and
celebrating the peace which had been shattered years ago.

I express my solidarity with my colleagues in this place and
with Canadians everywhere as we mark the fiftieth anniversary
of the last great war in which so many Canadians fell. We will
remember them in a special way on this Remembrance Day.

Honourable senators, each year, November 11 is a day for aIl
Canadians not only of remembrance and recognition of sacrifices
made, but also of rededication to the difficult but extremely
important work of keeping the peace.

Hon. Doris M. Anderson: Honourable senators, on Saturday,
we once again celebrate Remembrance Day. November 1l has
special memories for each one of us. For myself. as a lifelong
resident of St. Peters, Prince Edward Island, I am proud of the
fact that our small rural community, made up largely of farmers
and fishermen, in terms of population had the highest per capita
enlistment of any place in Canada in World War Il. Tragically, it
had the highest casualty rate as well.

[Translation]

Because of this fact of history, St. Peters was chosen to
host one of the first "Canada Remembers" events on
July 30 and 31, 1994. The Canada Remembers program, from
June 1994 until September 1995, gave Canadians an opportunity
ta commemorate the fiftieth anniversary of the events which
brought to an end the Second World War in 1945. When
inaugurating the Canada Remembers program, Prime Minister
Chrétien said:
Fifty years ago, we were a nation of less than 12 million
people. More than 1 million men and women were in
uniform, both overseas and on the home front. Since then,
our population has more than doubled. Many Canadians
today are descendants of those who fought so hard for
peace. Others have come from elsewhere. But aIl of us have
inherited the legacy of those brave men and women who
defended the values that Canadians have always
treasured - peace, freedom, democracy, generosity and
tolerance.
Honourable senators, today we remember with gratitude those
brave men and women who brought honour and a new respect to
our country. It was for our freedom that these young Canadians
fought, and it was for that freedom that many of them died.
We remember our courageous veterans who fought so
valiantly and endured so much hardship during the war and,
since its end, with impaired health and, in many cases, constant
pain. We honour the sacrifice of those men and women who gave
their ail that we might live in freedom.
Honourable senators, it is now our responsibility - and
indeed our duty - ta ensure that peace will indeed prevail in our
country and elsewhere so that future generations will never have
to endure the ravages of unrest and war. Canada has played and
continues to play a leading role in peacekeeping missions around
the world. One hundred and three Canadians have died on
peacekeeping missions since the end of the Second World War,
but that is the price of peace.

1 Senator Kinsella 1

NATIONAL UNITY
AFTERMATH OF QUEBEC REFERENDUMNECESSITY OF REVIEWING PEPIN-ROBARTS REPORT

Hon. Jean-Claude Rivest: Honourable senators, I know that
many of my colleagues are very concerned about the referendum
results in Quebec and what will happen next. Clearly. both the
federal govemment and the provincial governments of Canada
will have to deal with the implications of an outcome that is a
matter of great concern for the future of our country.
I am very pleased, as are ail Canadians I imagine, to see that
the Prime Minister of Canada has set up a cabinet committee that
will be asked to put these events into perspective and try to
define options for the future of this country.
I wish to say more specifically to the Leader of the
Government, who is a member of cabinet, that perhaps she
should get the attention of the committee that is chaired by the
Minister of Intergovernmental Affairs. This committee should
think about these issues. Of course, according to the
commitments made by the Prime Minister of Canada, the
committee will have to take into account the Meech Lake and
Charlottetown accords. The Meech Lake Accord is very
important in Quebec. I think the Prime Minister of Canada is on
the right track in this respect.
If he really wants to find a lasting and effective solution to the
problem of Quebec within the Canadian federation, if he truly
wants to reconcile the principle of provincial equality with the
particular identity of Quebec within Canada, I would urge the
Prime Minister to ask his colleagues to read again the
Pepin-Robarts report, which is probably the most relevant
document we have in these circumstances.
This report was drafted by two eminent Canadians,
John Robarts and Jean-Luc Pepin. I think the Government of
Canada will be able to find some answers in this report.
Unfortunately, it was shelved as soon as it was published. It
contains elements for a future solution which should have been
introduced when the report was tabled, but which are
nevertheless still extremely relevant, considering the resolve of
Quebecers to be and remain Quebecers in every sense of the
word, while continuing to share with ail Canadians the hopes and
aspirations of Canada as a whole.

November 8, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

SENATE DEBATES

November 8, 1995

THE HONOURABLE WARREN W. ALLMAND, P.C.,
MR. LEONARD HOPKINS, M.P.
FELICITATIONS ON THIRTIETH ANNIVERSARY
AS MEMBERS OF PARLIAMENT

Hon. Marcel Prud'homme: I think it would be appropriate,
in the interests of good relations with the other place, to point out
the anniversary of two former colleagues with whom I had the
privilege to sit for many years. In fact, I was there when they first
arrived in Parliament on November 8, 1965.
[English]

Indeed, both members arrived on November 8, 30 years ago.
I am sure many senators will remember that an election was
called on September 8, 1965, with voting day on
November 8, 1965. That election was supposed to bring us a
majority. I am sure Senator Keith Davey will remember those
days. We only won one more seat and remained a minority
goveriment.
Regardless of those events, today two members are still in the
House of Commons. One of those good friends will be acclaimed
tonight. I will have the honour to speak and to show that, in
Montreal, those who speak French and those who speak English
are equal. There is no such thing as a difference in votes.

2229
2229

Monday, November 20, 1995. Specifically, on that date we will
receive the report on Bill C-68, the gun control legislation, from
our Standing Senate Committee on Legal and Constitutional
Affairs. That was part of the house order we unanimously
adopted on October 18. The other part of that house order
provided that all remaining votes on the bill will take place on
Wednesday, November 22, at 5:30 p.m.
Honourable senators opposite have expressed a desire to begin
debate on the report of that committee as soon as it is tabled on
the Monday. Normally that would not be possible because
rule 58(l)(g) requires one day's notice for a motion to adopt a
committee report; consequently, debate could not begin until
Tuesday. Any votes called for on Tuesday could be deferred by
either whip, under rule 68, until Wednesday at 5:30 p.m. This
means that, as things now stand, all votes on Bill C-68 would be
held on Wednesday, November 22.
We on this side of the chamber are prepared to give unanimous
consent to allow debate on the committee's report to begin on
Monday, November 20, in order to provide the greatest possible
opportunity to debate this important piece of legislation.
However, that consent is conditional on the clear understanding
that all votes on Bill C-68 would still take place on Wednesday,
November 22. That understanding could be in the form of a
house order, or it could be on the basis of an agreement in this
chamber that no votes will be requested on the Monday.

(1350)

There will be a big crowd tonight in Notre-Dame-de-Grâce, a
riding that voted No in the referendum at close to 90 per cent,
and a riding that is represented very ably in the House of
Commons by a very long-time friend of mine. He is a dissident
like me. I am talking about the Honourable Warren Allmand.
Also celebrating his thirtieth anniversary as a member of
Parliament today is another person who broke ranks recently. He
told me that it was extremely difficult, but he did so on the gun
control bill. Here, I am speaking about Mr. Len Hopkins.
Both of these fine gentlemen are today celebrating 30 years of
extraordinary good service to the Canadian people. I have sat
with them, as well as some of my colleagues across the aisle, in
the House of Commons. I am sure honourable senators will want
to join with me in wishing these two members of Parliament
many more years to serve in the House of Commons, and in
congratulating them both very warmly.

ROUTINE PROCEEDINGS
BUSINESS OF THE SENATE
ADJOURNMENT

Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourable senators, before I move the
adjournment motion, I should like to look ahead to what we
anticipate will be taking place in the Senate on

If this approach is acceptable - and there have already been
discussions on this matter between the leadership on both sides
- I am prepared to move that when we adjourn today, we stand
adjourned until Monday, November 20, at two o'clock in the
afternoon.
If this approach is not acceptable, and we cannot begin debate
on the committee's report until Tuesday, then I would move the
adjournment until eight o'clock on Monday, November 20.
However, as I understand it - and according to the discussions I
have had with the leadership on the other side - we have
agreement that all votes would be on November 22.
Hon. Eric Arthur Berntson (Deputy Leader of the
Opposition): Honourable senators, it is true that we have had
some discussion on this matter. It is also true that we run some
small degree of risk of having debate seriously limited if we do
not agree to proceed immediately to debate the report from the
Legal and Constitutional Affairs Committee on Monday,
November 20. To that extent, we have agreed with the position of
the Deputy Leader of the Government that, for all intents and
purposes, this agreement will have the effect of a house order,
and I see it as such.
I have one additional question, which has nothing to do with
this particular topic: There is another possibility. In the event that
debate is concluded, and on the agreement of our respective
whips, perhaps it would be possible on November 22 to advance
the time of the vote rather than to adhere strictly to the house
order, which says 5:30 p.m. There is a possibility that debate
could be concluded earlier. Perhaps. at the discretion and
agreement of the whips, we could advance that time.

Senator Graham: Yes, bonourable senators. with unanimnous
consent we could advance the lime of the vote.
Hon. Lowell Murray: Honourable senators. 1 do not want the
leadership to tbink that there is an independent at this end of the
chamber.
Senator Prud'homme: Why not?
Senator Murray: However, there is one other matter that
1 should like to address. if I may.

Senator Lynch-Staunton: You are not in caucus now! Be
careful.

Senator Murray: 1 should like to draw to the attention of the
Deputy Leader of the Government a bouse order on which we
have already voted to deal witb Senator Fairbairn's proposed
instruction to the Legal and Constitutional Atiairs Committee on
Bill C-69. We had agreed to have that vote on Tuesday.
November 21. 1 want to be sure that, in planning the business of'
the Senate. my friend the Deputy Leader of tbe Govemment, who
bas control of the agenda, wilI allow time for some debate on
Senator Fairbairn's motion. 1 sbould like to say a few words on
that debate, and I think Senator Nolin would also like to be
beard.

Senator Graham: As a matter of fact. Honourable Senator
Murray, Honourable Senator Nolin, or any other senator wbo
wisbes cou Id say a few words on if today, or tomorrow. or on any
other day in advance of the time tbat we take to vote. However. it
is to be understood tbat tbe vote will take place no later than
5:30 p. m. on Tuesday, November 2 1.

Hon. Marcel Prud'homme: Tbank you very mucb for baving
informed me of aIL of these discussions and decisions. If a vote
were to take place earlier on Wednesday on Bill C-68, precaution
must be taken to ensure tbat every senator is informed of tbe
change. 1 understand tbat you make deals or may corne to an
agreement witb tbe officiaI opposition, but it will be sad. as far as
1 amn concerned. if for some reason not every senator is kept
informed. I know that on Tuesday at 5:30. there is an order ot the
bouse. 1. faitbfully. wiII be there. There is also one at 5:30 on
Wednesday.
1 certainly agree to the proposaI made by the bonourable
senator representing tbe officiaI opposition. that we may advance
the vote on Wednesday for aIl kinds of reasons. 1 accept that. as
long as someone does not leave some of us in limbo. so that we
arrive too late to exercise our vote.

Senator Graham: Honourable senators. 1 recognize the
concerns tbat bave been properly expressed by Senator
Prud'homme. We would advance the vote. I assure you. only
witb tbe unanimous consent of every living. breatbing senator
who is able to vote on that legisiation.

That when the Senate adjourns today. il do stand
adjoumned until Monday, Noveniber 20. 1995. at two o'clock
in the aftemnoon.

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, is leave
granted?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Motion agreed to.
0 i4m)>

INTER-PARLIAMENTARY UNION
NINETY FOURTII CONFERENCE. BUCHAREST. ROMANIAREPORi TABLED

Hon. Peter Bosa tabled the report of' the Ninetv-l'ourth
Inter-Parliamentary Conference. beld in Bucharesi, Rýomania.
fromt October 7 t0 14, 1995.
TRANSPORT AND COMMUNICATIONS
COMMJTTEE AUTIIORIZED TO MEET
DURING SITTING OF~TI-E SENATE

Hon. Donald H. Oliver. with leave of the Senate and
notwitbstanding rule 58(1 )(a). moved:
That the Standing Senate Comimittee on Transport and
Communications have power to sit at three o'clock in the
afternoon. today. November 8. 1995, even tbough the Senate
may then be sitting. and that rule 95(4) be suspended in
relation thereto.

The Hon. the Speaker: Is leave granted. honourable senators?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Motion agreed to.

FOREIGN AFFAIRS
(OMMILTEE AUTIIORIZED TO MEET
DURING SITTING OF THE SENATE

Hon. John B. Stewart. with leave of the Senate and
notwitbstanding rule 58(I)(a). moved:
That the Standing Senate Committee on Foreign Atfairs
have power to, sit at 3:15 p.m.. today. November 8, 1995.
even though the Senate may then be sitting. and that rule
95(4) be suspended in relation thereto.

The Hon. the Speaker: Is Icave granted. honourable senators?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.

Therefore. honourable senators. witb leave of' the Senate and
notwithstanding rule 58. 1(h). 1 move:

M'otion a-reed to.

Novemer 8,1995SENATE
DEBATES

November 8, 1995

INTER-PARLIAMENTARY UNION
NINETY-FOURTH CONFERENCE. BUCHAREST ROMANIANOTICE 0F INQUIRY

Hon. Peter Bosa: Honourable senators, I give notice that on
November 22, 1995, I wilI draw the attention of the Senate to the
report of the Ninety-fourth Inter-Parliamentary Conference, held
in Bucharest, Romania, frorn October 7 to 14, 1995.
GUN CONTROL LEGISLATION
PRESENTATION 0F PETITION

Hon. Paul Lucier: Honourable senators, I have the honour to
present a petition received from Mr. Ed Helwer, MLA in
Manitoba, and frorn the Council for Responsible Firearrns
Ownership of Manitoba. This petition is being presented on
behalf of Senator Molgat.

QUESTION PERIOD
NATIONAL DEFENCE
SEARCH AND RESCUE HELICOPTER REPLACEMENT PROGRAMRATIONALE FOR CHOICE

Hon. J. Michael Forrestall: Honourable senators, 1 see that
Senator Prud'homme has left the chamber. I just wanted to
rernind hlm that 1 was one of those who denied the Liberal
governiment, on this day 30 years ago, the majority it wanted.
1 should like to ask the Leader of the Governrnent a question
about the replacernent prograrn for search and rescue helicopters.
Many Canadians will be surprised, and I arn sure very pleased, to
Iearn of Minister Collenette's announcement, made here in
Ottawa this morning, regarding the acquisition of 15 new pieces
of equipment.
Can the leader tell us whether there was any deliberate
reasoning or rationale behind proceeding with the replacement
for the Labradors before acquiring replacement equipment for
the Sea Kings? Keep in mind, honourable senators, that it is the
Sea Kings that have had ail the trouble, not the Labradors. If
there is a rationale. could the Leader of the Government in the
Senate tell us what it is?
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, I cannot. The Minister of National Defence
has been working methodically on a series of priorities to, provide
the Arrned Forces with the best possible equipment. Today's
announcement deait with search and rescue helicopters. The
others will be deait with at another time, which in no way
detracts from the importance or the urgency of that decision.
Senator Forrestail: Honourable senators, could the Leader of
the Govemment indicate whether there is any truth to the rumour

that the governrnent has already reached a deal or a settlement
with Paxamax Systems and EH Industries for the cancellation of
the EH-l10I contract? Could she indicate, tirst, whether there has
been any such deal struck? If so, how much is the settlement for?
Will this amount be added to the $60 0 -million figure that
Minister Collenette has suggested would be the cost of an
outnight capital purchase, in addition to the $166 million we have
already paid back to the contractor?
I arn trying to get at the cost of this helicopter. Bear in mind
that the govemrment of which the Leader of the Govemment is
proud to, be a supporter told us that such a scenario was out of the
question, that there was only one way we can go. In my
judgment, it is irresponsible to continue to use the
Cadil1lac-Chevrolet analogy when selecting equipment of a
sensitive nature such as this.
I arn trying to determine whether there is a game of smoke and
mirrors being played to hide the real cost to the Canadian
taxpayer of the search and rescue helicopters and the Sea King
replacements. In the beginning, it was a single contract and the
costs were shared.
Could the Leader of the Governrnent give us an idea of
whether a deal has been struck, for how rnuch, and what portion
of it will be borne by the search and rescue helicopters, and what
portion will be lefi to the devices of the already overly strained
National Defence budget?
Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators. at the beginning of
my friend's question he referred to rumours that were circulating.
I can only deal today with the facts of the announcernent that was
made by the Minister of National Defence. That announcernent
spoke very clearly of his intention to seek the best possible
equiprnent at the best possible price for Canadians. This will be
an open process. Bids wilI be sought. It is hoped that he wiIl be
able to reach a conclusion through this open process later in
1996, when an agreernent will be reached.
Senator Forrestail: Honourable senators, we are concernied
about the total. The estimates of what we had spent on the
EH-l0i contract with pre-engineering work and the penalties
which arose frorn the cancellation of it range up to, in excess
of $2 billion.
(410)
0

SEARCH AND RESCUE HELICOPTER REPLACEMENT PROGRAMNATURE 0F REDUCTION IN CAPABILITYREOUEST FOR PARTICULARS

Hon. J. Michael Forrestaîl: My final question for the Leader
of the Govemnment concerns what is, perhaps, the most important
aspect of this whole matter. At the press conference this mrnming,
Minister Collenette alluded to a 15 per cent reduction in the
capability of these new search and rescue helicopters. Can the
Leader of the Govemment tell us specifically just what are these
diminished capabilities? Is there a reduction in terms of airborne

endurance'? Will the helicopters have three engines instead of'
two. thus liniiiing their capacity to hover over mounitainous
regions? Will the reduction in capacity relate to lift capability?
How many people is it contemplated that these new helicopters
wiII be able to carryl We have heard some very startling rumours
that they may only be able to handie one or two people at a time.
and that they may flot have the over water night-tlying or the
de-icing capabilities which are so necessary. particularly in
mounitainous regions and off the Atlantic and Pacific coasts.

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators. those are questions which deserve factual
answers and flot rumour. 1 would bc pleased to obtain those
answers for my honourable friend.

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of' the Government):
Honourable senators. the commenis made by the Prime Minister
and Mr. Quelici during the referendum campaign speak f'or
themselves. 1 arn sure that they wiIl be bonoured.

FIREARMS BILL
FUNDING ARRANGEMENTS WITH GOVERNMENT 0F
NOVA SCOTIA REQUEST FOR PARTICULARS

with respect to Bill C-68, the Premier of Nova Scotia stated:

SEARCH ANI) RESCUE HELICOPTER REPLACEMENT PROGRAMPROPORTION 0F CANADIAN CONTENT IN CONTRACT BIDSREQUEST FOR PARTICULARS

Hon. Pierre Claude Nolin: Honourable senators, does the
Minister of National Defence require bidders to include a
specific Canadian content, and if so. in what proportion"
[En glish]

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators. 1 wiIl undertake to obtain that figure for
Senator Nolin.
[Translation]

NATIONAL UNITY
QUEBEC REFERENDUM POSSIBLE REDUCTION IN
ELDERLY BENEFITS GOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. Thérèse Lavoie-Roux: Honourable senators. my
question is for the Leader of the Government in the Senate.
During the referendum, on aIl sides. great use was made of
arguments eitber io convince peuple to vote Yes, or te, convince
people to vote No. One of these arguments was used on the
initiative of Mr. Bouchard and Mrs. Vézina. namely that if
seniors voted No tbey would find their old age pensions reduced.
This took on such proportions that Minister André Ouellet
intervened ai one point to state that ihere was no question of ibis.
Later on. Prime Minister Chrétien made a statement in the same
vein as well. At that trne, both stated that the amounts currently
being paid to seniors would not be affected. regardless of wbai
discussions might take place concerning social programs.
1 would like the Leader of' the Govemnment io confirm io us
again îoday thai the government bas nu intention. even after the

Foiriestil 1

[En glis il

Hon. Gerald J. Comeau: Honourable senators. last month.

[Translation]

1Senati

social program rcview. to reduce the pensions currently being
paid to seniors.

I've siated quite categorically thai this is a federal
responsibility .. ..We have esiablished witb the federal
minisier Allan Rock that there will be no cost to the
province.
WiIl the Leader of the Government please advise this house of
the contents of the deal that has been worked out between the
federal government and the government of Nova Scotia?! Will she
table the deal?

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, 1 wilI consult with the Minister ot' Justice
on ihis matter. I amn certain ihat the Minister of Justice was
restating. as he bas donc aIl along. the difference between the
responsibilities of' provinces and the federal govemment in terms
of ibis legislation. However. 1 will be pleased to have a furtber
conversation witb him in this regard.
AVAILABILITY TO OTHER PROVINCES 0F SIMILAR
ARRANGEMENTS COSTS TO TAXPAYERS-GOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. Gerald J. Comeau: Honourable senators. would the
Leader of tbe Government in the Senate also please advise
whetber the financial arrangements with the Province ot Nova
Scotia include payments for botb the registration and the
enforcement of the bill'? In bis response, the Premier of Nova
Scoîla said that there would no cost wbatsoever to the taxpayers
of Nova Scotia. If this is the case. bas a similar deal been offered
to the other provinces of Canada? 1 would assume that it must
bave been offered, since one province cannot be treaied
differenîly trom another. Has a calculation been made of the total
cost ot sucb a deal to the Canadian taxpayer?
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, first, 1 preface my response by saying that 1
do flot concur witb the words of the honourable senator. wbich
refer to a special deal with any one province. The Minister of
Justice bas been very clear in bis explanations about costing.
However. 1 will be happy to double check that for my honourable
friend.

Novembe8.
1995SENATE
DEBATES

November 8, 1995

HEALTH
NEW LEGISLATION TO CURTAIL TOBACCO CONSUMPTIONGOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. Mira Spivak: Honourable senators, Iast June in this
chamber, 1 asked the government to consider placing tobacco
products under the provisions of the Hazardous Products Act, in
order to fi gaps in legisiation that would have the effect of
reducing smoking. Since that time, our body of effective Iaw bas
been substantially reduced, flot enhanced. The Supreme Court
bas gutted the Tobacco Products Control Act, and we have seen
good evidence that the law to prohibit sales to minors is flot
being well enforced.
In recent weeks, we have seen reports that after three decades
of decline, the rate of smoking in Ontario bas begun to rise
significantly. A survey by the Addiction Research Foundation
found, for example, that more than 30 per cent of students in
grades 7 to 13 in Eastern Ontario are now smoking. Lt also found
that the surge in smoking in both aduits and teenagers is directly
related to the lower price of cigarettes, effected by the current
government when it slashed taxes.
In response to my question of June, the govemrment stated that
tobacco products cannot be placed under the Hazardous Products
Act because it contends that the act's unwritten purpose is to
make products safe, and that cannot be doue with tobacco. Urea
formaldehyde-based insulation and asbestos products can be
regulated under the law, but flot tobacco, which kilts more than
41,000 Canadians yearly.
Now that we are seeing the effect of the govemnment-induced
price reduction on tobacco products, the government's failure to
adequately enforce the ban on sales to minors and its inadequate
defence of the law banning tobacco advertising, wbat new law to
curb tobacco consumption does the govemnment propose? If flot
the Hazardous Products Act or the Food and Drugs Act, what
precisely does it have in mind to restore a downward trend in
tobacco use?
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, I cannot give the bonourable senator a
specific answer to ber question. She bas described accurately the
concern and dilemma of the Minister of Healtb over the use of
the Hazardous Products Act in this case. She is quite rigbt when
sbe says that the response bas been that it is impossible to make
tobacco products safe. Thus, legisiation that would place tobacco
within tbis particular act would be ineffective.
0 (1420)

However, tbe minister does agree that the Hazardous Products
Act bas features that would be very useful if included in
legislation that deals specifically witb the special and the difficuit
problems created by tobacco consumption. This subject is very
close to the minister's heart. She is working assiduously on it.
Honourable senators. I cannot give my bonourable friend an
accurate time frame. but the minister shares my bonourable
fiend*s concernis and will be proceeding to find an alternative to
tbe one prescribed by my bonourable lniend.

2233
23

Senator Spivak: Honourable senators, the Supreme Court of
Canada bas invited sucb legislation. I do flot doubt the motives of
the minister, but tbe important tbing is action. Perbaps I could
ask tbe Leader of tbe Government if she would use ber good
offices to give us some idea of a time frame. Tbis matter cannot
be kept in limbo forever.
Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators, I would be pleased
to do so.
ABORIGINAL PEOPLES
REPORT 0F SENATE COMMI'ITEE ON PLIGHT 0F ABORIGINAL
VETERANS-REQUEST FOR RESPONSE

Hon. A. Raynell Andreychuk: Honourable senators, in ligbt
of the tributes paid to veterans and tbis time of remembrance that
will culminate in ceremonies on November 1l, would the Leader
of tbe Govemment in the Senate tell me wben tbe goverrument

will respond to the aboriginal veterans report tbat was
unanimously passed in this bouse? If there is no answer to the
report, bave any initiatives been undertaken to answer the pligbt
of aboriginal veterans? Since this issue was brougbt to the
attention of tbe Senate, many of those aboriginal veterans bave
passed away. It is becoming increasingly important that this issue
be addressed, and addressed quickly.
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, to Senator Andreychuk and ail senators
wbo served on tbe committee tbat studied tbe matter, I would like

an answer to that question as well, and 1 will pursue it.
TRANSPORT
AUTOMATED WEATHER OBSERVATION SYSTEMS-REPORT 0F
SENATE COMMITTEE-REQUEST FOR RESPONSE FROM MINISTERS

Hon. Pat Carney: Honourable senators, my question is also to
the Leader of the Govemnment in the Senate.

Yesterday, I brougbt to tbe attention of tbis chamber tbe failure
of tbree ministers; to respond to our Senate committee's report on
automated weatber stations (A.W.O.S.), which Canadian pilots
say is an accident waiting to happen. In the four montbs since we
asked for a response to the report, we have received one reply
from Brian Tobin's signature machine saying tbat at some point
our report will be answered.
In view of the fact that nearly 20 municipalities and cities have
written us to express their concemn witb this tecbnology and their
opposition to it being installed in their communities, what can
you do to encourage tbe ministers to deal witb tbis issue in a
more timely manner?
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government): Senator
Camney, since this issue was raised in tbe Senate by yourself and
by Senator Kenny, I bave made inquiries. Tbe lead department on
this issue is tbe Department of Transport. Lt is coordinating the
responses of otber departments and bopes to bave a coordinated
response soofi.

Senator Carney: Honourable senators. it is flot good enough
to tell us that we will have a response soon. It is the very fact that
three departments are involved. ail of them buck-passing this
issue between themselves. that this particular bail will be
fumbled and Canadian ]ives wiIl be lost. 1 arn asking the Leader
of the Govemment to, get us an answer now. flot soon!

Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators. 1 wiIl be pleased to
facilitate the speed with which this answer is given. The reason
for the delay of the answer is flot a question of buck-passing; it is
a question of coordinating the best possible answer for the
Senate.
[Translation]

INFRASTRUCTURE PROGRAM
EFFECT ON CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRYGOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. Pierre Claude Nolin: My question is for the Leader of
the Government in the Senate and concernis the economy in
general and the construction sector in particular.
On several occasions your government has promoted the
infrastructure program. It referred particularly to the beneficial
effects it would bave on the construction sector. Could you
explain to us how 56,000 jobs were Iost in the construction sector
between mid-October 1994 and the month of October 1995'?
[En glish]
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators. I wiII have to take that question as notice,
check the figures. and get back to rny honourable friend.
UNITED NATIONS
RESOt UTION TO HALT NUCLEAR TESTINO GOVERNMENT
OBJECTION TO WORDING IN TEXT-REQUEST FOR PARTICULARS

Hion. A. Raynell Andreychuk: Honourable senators. 1 have a
further question related to, the non-proliferation treaty. As 1 asked
yesterday. if this matter was not an issue of pressure from other
goverfments, could the Honourable Leader of the Govemment in
the Senate tell us why the government strongly disagrees with the
wurding '"strongly disagrccs with nuclear testing" in the
resolution as it is presently before the United Nations'?
Historically, we have always strongly disagreed with nuclear
testing. Why are we not in agreement with that wording today?
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators. as 1 said in response to Senator Murray
yesterday. 1 wiII seek advice on that particular question. Canada

bas tollowed through on its commitments. and 1 will seek to find
more detail on the question that Senator Andreychuk and Senator
Murray have asked.

ORDERS 0F THE DAY
EXCISE TAX ACT
EXCISE ACT
BILL TO AMEND-THIRD READING

Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government) moved the third reading of Bill C-90, to amend
the Excise Tax Act and the Excise Act.
Motion agreed to and bill read third time and passed.

INCOME TAX CONVENTIONS
IMPLEMENTATION BILL, 1995
THIRD READING

Hon. Peter Bosa moved the third reading of Bill C-105. to
implement a convention between Canada and the Republic of
Latvia. a convention between Canada and the Republic of
Estonia, a convention between Canada and the Republic of
Trinidad and Tobago. and a protocol between Canada and the
Republic of Hungary. f'or the avoidance of' double taxation and
the prevention of fiscal evasion with respect to taxes on income.
He said: Honourable senators. before 1 move third reading of
this bill, I wish to respond to a question put to me and to the
leadership by Senator Sylvain concerning the reason why
Bill C-105. on conventions to avoid double taxation. had its
origin in the House of Commons rather than in this chamber.
I made an inquiry of the Government House Leader. the
Honourable Herb Gray. and he sent me the fotlowing reply:
In exercising my Ministeriat duties with regard to
planning the Govemnment's legishative program, 1 must take
into account the legistative burdens in each House when a
bibi is ready for introduction. It was my judgment that the
House of Commons agenda was more conducive to
consideration of Bilt C-b10S earty in the autumn than it
would be tater in the session. It is for this reason that the bill
was initiated in the Commons.
Having said that. if there are no other questions concerning
this bilt. 1 move the third reading.
Motion agreed to and bill read third time and passed.

November8,
1995SENATE
DEBATES

November 8, 1995

[Translation]

2235
23

0(41
[En glish]

ROYAL ASSENT
NOTICE

The Hon. the Speaker informed the Senate that the following
communication had been received:
RIDEAU HALL
November 8, 1995

1 have the honour to inform you that The Honourable
Peter deC. Cory, Puisne Judge of the Supreme Court of
Canada, in his capacity as Deputy Govemnor General, wil
proceed to the Senate Chamber today, the 8th day of
November 1995, at 4:00 p.m., for the purpose of giving
Royal Assent to certain bis.
Yours sincerely,
Anthony P. Smyth
Deputv Secretarw,
Polic, Pro grami and Protocol

The Honourable
The Speaker of the Senate
Ottawa
ELECTORAL BOUNDARIES
READJUSTMENT BILL, 1995
MOTION TO INSTRUCT LEGAL AND CONSTITUTIONAL AFFAIRS
COMMflTEE TO TABLE FINAL REPORT-DEBATE CONTINIJED

On the Order:
Resuming the debate on the motion of the Honourabie
Senator Fairbairn, P.C., seconded by the Honourable Senator
Stewart,
That it be an instruction of this House to the Standing
Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs that no hater
than Wednesday, November 22, 1995, it present its final
report to the Senate on the Message from the House of
Commons, dated June 20, 1995, regarding Bill C-69, an Act
to provide for the establishment of electoral boundaries
commissions and the readjustment of ehectoral boundaries.
Hon. Gérald-A Beaudoin: Honourable senators, 1 wish to rise
at this point in the debate to establish the context and point of
view under which the Standing Senate Commnittee on Legal and
Constitutional Affairs has considered Bill C-69 up to now.

Section 51 of the Constitution Act, 1867, provides that the
number of members of Parliament and the representation of
provinces in the House of Commons are readjusted after each
decennial census, the first one having been made in 1871, under
the authority of Parliament. Parliament has a certain discretion.
but, according to the letter and the spirit of the said section 51,
the readjustment is mandatory, Iegally and constitutionally.
The last census was taken in 1991. The present government
was elected in October 1993.
[Translation]

The House of Commons passed Bill C-18, an Act to suspend
the operation of the Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Act, in
its final formn in 1994, after agreeing to the amendments proposed
by the Senate. This provisional legisiation was to remain in effect
until June 1995, at the latest. The aim of Bill C- 18 was simply to
suspend the Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Act
(Chapter E-3), during the time it took to find another process for
readjusting electoral boundaries.
The suspension was to end June 22, at the latest, or earlier,
with the passing of Bill C-69.
[English]

Bill C-69 was flot adopted on June 22. Bill C- 18 became spent
or, as we say in French, caduc. As a resuit, section E-3 now
applies. Bill C-69 constitutes a new process. The bill has the,
objective to abrogate and replace E-3.
Bill C-69, adopted by the other House on Apriî 25, 1995, was
studied by the Senate, six amendments were proposed by the
Legal and Constitutional Affairs Committee. The bill as amended
was reported in June 1995. The other House rejected five of the
six amendments, but accepted the amendment on the criterion of
residence. This is a technical amendment. As 1 said before, the
amendment reducing disparity between constituencies was
rejected.
[Translation]

The message from the other House was referred to the Senate.
It passed it on to the Standing Senate Committee on Legal and
Constitutional Affairs.
A second report was tabled July 12, 1995, in the Senate by the
Standing Senate Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs.
I have made arrangements for an expert to appear before the
committee on the morning of November 21. 1 arn waiting for
confirmation today. 1 wilh also ask a senior officiai of Ehections
Canada to appear as weIl to deal with the hegal and technical
questions.

great democracy. That is why I think such an amendment should
have been accepted.

[English|
Our main concern has always been to do everything we can to
assure Parliament that the next federal election will be based on
the census of 1991 and not on the census of 1981. We think that
the letter and the spirit of section 51 of the Constitution Act,
1867, leave us no choice.
What is the legal situation now? Section E-3 applies. We have
returned to the previous legal situation. The Chief Electoral
Officer has worked on that basis for a few months. I am informed
that the new maps under E-3 will be ready in January 1996. They
will be in force one year after: that is, January 1997. It means
that if the current process continues, a general election could be
held on the basis of the 1991 census after January 1997.
Some senators think that if the readjustment of boundaries of
electoral constituencies is suspended again, and if we start again
at square one, chances are that the next general election will not
be based on the census of 1991.
[Translation ]
Honourable senators. it has been said that the Senate should
not intervene in an area that concerns the elected representatives
of this country.
There is a tendency to quote from a speech made on
December 18. 1985, by Senator Jacques Flynn. in which he said:
In any event. I would say this is an area that almost
exclusively concerns the House of Commons, and I think
that we as a non-elected Chamber and as appointed
legislators are hardly in a position to tell the Members of the
House of Commons how they should proceed to draw the
boundaries of their electoral districts.
But they forget to add what follows Flynn, and I quote:

this is still Senator

Nevertheless, if there were some major questions of
principle, the Senate would certainly have a contribution to
make.
Personally. I regret the fact that the other place did not see fit
to accept the amendment reducing the degree of disparity
between ridings from 25 per cent to 15 per cent.
0

I144oý

[En glish]
No doubt some will say that the courts of justice in this
country and even the Supreme Court of Canada have accepted
such a disparity in some cases. I do not contest that fact. I have
read that decision. The Supreme Court has ruled, but it is still a
question that is debated because. in my opinion. Canada is a

[ Senatoi Beaudoin

1

It is not surprising that some of us have expressed a desire to
insist on the proposed amendments. We will hear witnesses on
November 21. The whole Senate - as agreed earlier today by a
special order, confirming a previous one - will be invited to
express its opinion after a debate takes place on this bill. I am
confident that the correct position will be taken in this case.
On motion of Senator Carstairs. debate adjourned.

UNITED NATIONS
FOURTH WORLD CONFERENCE ON WOMEN. BEIJING.
CHINA-DEBATE ADJOURNED

Hon. Landon Pearson rose
October 17. 1995:

pursuant

to notice of

That she will call the attention of the Senate to the Fourth
World Conference on Women, held in Beijing, from
September 4 to 15, 1995, which Senator Cohen and I had
the privilege to attend as parliamentary observers on behalf
of the Senate.
She said: Honourable senators, I rise today to report on the
Fourth World Conference on Women held in Beijing from
September 4 to 15, 1995, at which it was my privilege to be
present as a parliamentary observer.
Since returning to Canada, I have thought a great deai about
what I saw and heard there. I should now like to share with you
why I consider that conference a success.
There are many ways in which one can evaluate an
international gathering of this scale. I have chosen three: as a
parliamentarian, as a Canadian and, for me, perhaps the most
important. as a woman committed to the rights and the
well-being of children, in this case, the girl child.
I enjoyed the presence of my parliamentary colleagues on the
Canadian delegation and was impressed by their performance.
There were 10 of us, ably led by the Honourable Sheila
Finestone, Minister for the Status of Women. We represented
different political parties. different parts of the country and, to
some extent, different visions. However, each one of us took our
responsibilities seriously and worked hard to make ourselves
useful.

I was equally impressed by women parliamentarians I met
from other countries. I felt strengthened as I listened to them in
the plenum making formal presentations on behalf of their
country women with eloquence and power. They were splendid
models for all of us, but especially for the girls and young
women present. of whom there were many.

November 8, 1995

November 8. 1995

SENATE DEBATES

SENATE DEBATES

As a Canadian, I was extremely proud of the role our country
played in the success of the conference, not only at the
conference itself but also in the years of preparation leading up to
it. It was quite clear to all of us there that the leadership of
Canada was greatly appreciated by the countries present. Canada
has earned the respect of the world through commitment, hard
work, and a remarkable capacity to work with others.
Our commitment to the cause of women was demonstrated by
the careful work of Status of Women Canada in preparing our
position and producing the necessary documentation. It was also
demonstrated by the Government of Canada ensuring, through
Status of Women Canada, Foreign Affairs and the Canadian
International Development Agency, the presence of not only a
large number of Canadian non-governmental organizations but
also African and Eastern European women who would not
otherwise have been able to attend.
Our hard work was demonstrated through the extraordinary
efforts of Canadian representatives, governmental and
non-governmental alike, at the preparatory committee meetings
and at the conference itself, where our negotiators were quite
simply brilliant. In conjunction with the work of Canadian
delegates, both official and non-governmental, their success
attests to our capacity to work well with others. At the Fourth
World Conference on Women, I was proud to be a Canadian.
However, honourable senators, it was as an advocate for the
girl child that I drew my greatest satisfaction from the
conference. The Fourth World Conference on Women was the
latest in a series of UN conferences on the situation of the
world's women. Following the 1975 conference in Mexico City,
1976 to 1985 was declared the UN Decade for Women. In 1980,
the Copenhagen conference produced the Program of Action for
the Second Half of the UN Decade for Women. The 1985
Nairobi conference resulted in Forward-Looking Strategies for
the Advancement of Women, a blueprint for action through to the
year 2000.
Each of these conferences addressed serious problems related
to the status of women, but none of them gave a separate place to
the situation of the girl child. However, since the unanimous
adoption of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child in
1989, the consciousness of the world has changed. Now, every
United Nations conference must take children into account. This
was true at the Vienna World Conference on Human Rights in
1993, the Cairo International Conference on Population and
Development in 1994, and the Copenhagen World Summit for
Social Development in 1995.
With the Children's Convention, and through the United
Nations, the world has formally recognized its responsibility for
children and the obligation of states to protect, nurture and
provide for them the opportunities they require to grow up as
caring and responsible citizens in an increasingly complex world.
Honourable senators, I know that you have no difficulty in
recognizing that children have needs and indeed rights that must

2237
2237

be attended to. You also know that throughout the world children
of both sexes are at risk. However, because she is female, the girl
child has, historically, been particularly vulnerable to
discrimination, exploitation and neglect.
It was the African countries that insisted the girl child become
a "Critical Area of Concern" in the Platform for Action to be
negotiated and decided upon at the conference. Then, Canada
helped to redraft the initial text so that it would apply to all girls,
no matter where they lived. The Children's Convention was used
as a framework.
A completed text, section L of the Platform for Action, was
brought to the conference in Beijing, but it contained many
square brackets indicating the consensus was still lacking. The
main issues of contention to be negotiated at the conference
included early marriage, sexual exploitation, female genital
mutilation, education, inheritance and parental rights and
responsibilities.
At the conference, delegates agreed to the following: That
child marriage is detrimental to the healthy development of a
young girl and should be made illegal; that female genital
mutilation is an act of violence - and this is the first time there
has been an agreement on female genital mutilation at the
international level and that governments and
non-governmental organizations should be obliged to develop
formal and informai education programs that support and enable
girls to acquire knowledge to develop self-esteem and to take
responsibility for their own lives.
e

(1450)

With respect to inheritance, the agreed text of the Platform for
Action in paragraph 274(d) commits to:
Eliminate the injustice and obstacles in relation to
inheritance faced by the girl child so that all children may
enjoy their rights without discrimination, by, inter alia,
enacting, as appropriate, and enforcing legislation that
guarantees equal right to succession and ensures equal right
to inherit, regardless of the sex of the child.
Finally, with respect to parental responsibilities, the Platform
of Action in paragraph 267 reads:
Taking into account the rights of the child to access
information, privacy, confidentiality, respect and informed
consent as well as the responsibilities and duties of parents
and legal guardians to provide, in a manner consistent with
the evolving capacities of the child, appropriate direction
and guidance in the exercise by the child of the rights
recognized in the Convention on the Rights of the Child and
in conformity with the Convention on the Elimination of
DiscriminationAgainst Women.

In ail actions concerning children, the best interests of the
child shall be of primary consideration.

Honourable senators. United Nations conferences like the
Fourth World Conference on Women are essentially about
language, about the evolution. shaping and refinement of the
language the international community agrees to use in its
analysis of the major issues of our times. Changing language
may not immediately change attitudes or provoke action, but
without the necessary language, progress, if it takes place at ail.
will be very slow indeed.
Listen now to how the language about children's rights has
changed in this century. The first International Deciaration on
Children's Rights in Geneva in 1924 spoke primarily to
children's welfare needs for food, health. protection, and so on.
There was no reference to autonomy. In the text of the UN
Declaration of the Rights of the Child in 1959, the emphasis is
still on welfare and protection, though there is a new focus on
child development. However, the same declaration indicates littie
understanding of the importance of children's views. nor does it
address the concept of empowerment.
The Children's Convention in 1989 changed ail that. For the
first time the child is recognized as a person, as a holder of rights
as well as entitlements, and as having a certain autonomy to be
encouraged as the child matures. It is the convention's language
that informed the negotiations in Beijing.
In the section on the girl child in paragraph 279(c) of the
Platform for Action, govemments commit to:
... promote human rights education in educational
programmes and include in human rights education the fact
that the human rights of women and the girl child are an
inalienable, integral and indivisible part of universal human
rights.
Honourable senators, as a result of the work at the Fourth
World Conference on Women in Beijing, there will be a new
climate for girls. Never again will a member state be able to
neglect its responsibility to the health. education and protection
of girls without incurring international censure. Never again can
a state justify the violation of the rights of women and girls on
the sole basis of custom. tradition or religion.
We know that the situation of girls will not improve overnight,
that exploitation, neglect and discrimination will continue. Yet, I
am here to say today that your granddaughters and mine, as well
as countless littie girls in the rest of the world, are more likely to
now have their human rights protected and to have wider choices
and greater opportunities to have their human potential fulfilled
because of what happened in Beijing. This is no mean
accomplishment.
Hon. Noël A. Kinsella: Would the honourable senator
entertain a question?
Senator Pearson: Certainly:
Senator Kinsella: Would the honourable senator explain to us
the nature of the Canadian delegation to the Fourth World

Senîoi Peaison i

Congress on Women? In your inquiry, I note that the honourable
senator used the phrase that she and the Honourable Senator
Cohen were present as "parliamentary observers." What was the
relationship of your participation and that of Senator Cohen's
with the official Canadian delegation?
Senator Pearson: My understanding of how these delegations
are created is that, aside from the actual negotiators and officiais,
ail of us are described as "observers." I assume that that is the
same case in ail UN functions.
Senator Kinsella: Was any contact made during the course of
the officiai intergovernmental meeting in Beijing and the meeting
of the women's forum, which was made up of NGOs from
around the world. some 30 or 40 miles outside of Beijing'?
Senator Pearson: Was there any contact?
Senator Kinsella: Yes.
Senator Pearson: There was a great deal of contact. Senator
Cohen and I went out two or three times. We interacted as the
members of non-governmental organizations came in. Some
were on the delegation.
While we were observers on the official Canadian delegation.
we were ail accredited to the conference. In that sense. we were
ail delegates. I have forgotten how many Canadian
non-governmental women were accredited to the main
conference, but I know it was a large number. Having spoken
with many of them. I know that they were extremely active and
effective.
Senator Kinsella: Honourable senators, criticism has been
raised by a number of Canadian women who attended the
women's forum. They indicated that on several occasions when
they came in from the NGO women's forum to observe the UN
conference they had a difficult time finding the Canadian
delegation. Have you heard that criticism?
Senator Pearson: Honourable senators, I spoke last week in
Toronto with several non-governmental delegates from York
University. They expressed no particular problem. It was a very
large conference. People who know their way around in those
kinds of conferences know how quickly to make contact.
Negotiators conducted a formai debriefing with the
non-governmental organizations in the main conference building
every single day. However, it is possible that some Canadians
were not aware of that.
Senator Kinsella: I read a criticism in the news media levied
by women participating in the NGO forum against members of
the officiai delegation. Apparently, for a considerable period of
time, for a few days when the intergovernmental conference was
on. the Canadian delegation was not present. It was off in a
different city doing other things. Is that true'?

November 8, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

Senator Pearson: A certain number of us - that is, the
parliamentarians, not the other members of the delegation undertook two missions to China. I went to the northwestern part
of China to look at development projects involving women. It
gave us a great opportunity to understand better the situation in
China and, in particular, the situation of women in China. I can
assure the honourable senator that it was difficult work. One of
us came back with typhoid fever. It was not a junket. We did not
desert our post.
Senator Cohen can speak for herself about the importance and
significance of the trip that she took.
Honourable senators, after a week, we could see that our
negotiators and officials were doing a superb job. There was no
problem in our going away for a few days in order to enrich our
experience and the Canadian presence in China.
Hon. Allan J. MacEachen: Honourable senators, perhaps I
could ask Senator Pearson a question. It has to do with the role of
the Vatican delegation at the conference. There was considerable
comment as to that particular role.
0(Jsoo)

Can the honourable senator shed any light on what was filtered
through the press? Did she have an opportunity to meet the lady
from the United States who headed the delegation representing
the Vatican?
Senator Pearson: Honourable senators, Senator MacEachen's
question reflects, in a sense, the way the media reported on this
conference. For those of us who were there, the media's
reflection of what went on at the conference was not accurate.
It is true that the Vatican had a position and a great many
concerns about some of the issues that were raised at the
conference. Since the Vatican has but observer status at the UN,
it expressed those concerns quite vocally through the countries
which represent their points of view. I refer to Malta and some
other countries. Those who were present expected there to be
more contention than there actually was. That is because the
language had already been agreed to at the population conference
in Cairo, which reinforces the point I tried to make in my speech.
Therefore, with respect to some of the issues on which one might
have expected the Vatican to take a strong position, it did not.
I did not have the opportunity to meet the leader of the Vatican
delegation. I am not sure whether other members of our
delegation may have done so.
On motion of Senator Cohen, debate adjourned.
AGRICULTURE AND FORESTRY
MOTION TO AUTHORIZE COMMITTEE TO STUDY THE PRESENT
STATE AND FUTURE OF AGRICULTURE AND AGRI-FOOD

Hon. Dan Hays moved:

2239

That the Standing Senate Committee on Agriculture and
Forestry be authorized to examine the present state and the
future of agriculture and agri-food in Canada; and
That the committee table its report no later than
June 30, 1996.
He said: Honourable senators, the Agriculture and Forestry
Committee has completed two reports, both of which were tabled
in June. One dealt with the subject of farm machinery and safety
issues. The other was the committee's findings pursuant to a
fact-finding trip to Washington, as well as to Winnipeg where it
heard from the Canadian Wheat Board.
The committee is currently without a reference. Accordingly, it
is not in the position to hold public hearings, which is the reason
I am requesting this rather general reference on behalf of the
committee today. Currently, it is our intention to call the
co-chairs of the blue ribbon committee which is making a report
pursuant to a request from the Minister of Agriculture and the
American Secretary of Agriculture concerning the grain trade
between Canada and the United States.
We are also in the process of requesting and taking briefings
from the Department of Agriculture on a number of policy
initiatives that are in the works in Agriculture and Agri-Food
Canada. We would like to have the ability to hold public
hearings, if that would serve better our agriculture and agri-food
constituencies.
We have included a report date of June 30, 1996. It is quite
possible there may be a prorogation of Parliament before that
time.
I would also point out that if the committee does settle on a
specific subject, I anticipate that we will pass a specific request
for such a reference, the budget of which it would then take to
the appropriate subcommittee of the Internal Economy
Committee and then in turn to the main committee for approval.
Honourable senators, if we do that, we would try, probably for
the first time, to have the reference continue for at least a few
days beyond the reporting date for the purposes of handling
publicity, and so on, which matters are sometimes awkward to
deal with the moment a report is tabled because the reference
ends. After the reference has ended, there is no authority to deal
with such matters as publicity, or even providing information
about the report.
I would be happy to deal with any questions that honourable
senators may have.
Motion agreed to.
The sitting of the Senate was suspended until 3:55 p.m.

[Translation]
ROYAL ASSENT
The Right Honourable Peter deC. Cory. Puisne Judge of the
Suprerne Court of Canada, in his capacity as Deputy Governor
General. having corne and being seated at the foot of the Throne.
and the House ot' Commons having been surnroned, and being
corne with their Deputy Speaker. the Right Honourable the
Deputy Govemnor General was pleased to give the Royal Assent
to the following bis:
An Act to arnend the Canada-United States Tax
Convention Act (Bill S-9, Chapter 34, 1995)
An Act to arnend the Explosives Act (Bill C-71,
Chapter35, 1995)
An Act to amend the Excise Tax Act and the Excise Act
(Bill C-90, Chapter 36, 1995)

An Act to implement a convention between Canada and
the Republic of Latvia, a convention between Canada and
the Republic of' Estonia. a convention between Canada and
the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago and a protocol
between Canada and the Republic of Hungary, for the
avoidance ot double taxation and the prevention of fiscal
evasion with respect to taxes on incorne (Bill C-105,
Chzapter 37, 1 995)
The House of Commons withdrew.
The Right Honourable the Deputy Governor General was
pleased to retire.
The sitting of the Senate was resurned.
The Senate adjoumned until Monday. November 20. 1995. at
2 p.rn.

2241

THE SENATE
Monday, November 20, 1995
The Senate met at 2 p.m., the Speaker in the Chair.
Prayers.
PAGES EXCHANGE PROGRAM
WITH HOUSE OF COMMONS
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, I would like to
advise you that we have two new pages from the House of
Commons, both of whom have been selected to participate in the
exchange program with the Senate for the week of November 20
to 24. One of our pages is presently over in the House of
Commons.

region has grown in the last 30 years from 15 per cent to nearly
40 per cent.
Japan by itself is a world economic giant, and quickly
developing to parallel status is China with 15 per cent GDP
growth in 1994, and India with 8 per cent GDP growth in the
same year. Indonesia, Thailand, Taiwan and Malaysia are
examples of countries whose economic expansion in each year of
this decade has been three times greater than that of Canada or
the United States.
Prime Minister Chrétien told a meeting in Canberra, Australia,
last week that:

I would like to introduce to you Carine Lavoie, who hails from
Noëlville, Ontario. Carine is enroled at the University of Ottawa
in general art studies.

The Pacific is Canada's future. APEC is extremely
important because the money, the people, the growth and
the dollars of tomorrow will be in the Pacific.

We have as well Mark Coward from Burnaby, British
Columbia, who is currently enroled at the University of Ottawa
in arts and philosophy.

One year ago in Bogor, Indonesia, APEC leaders signed a
declaration committing developed Pacific Rim nations to
reaching a free trade deal by the year 2010 and developing
countries to joining by 2020. By that time, APEC will represent
seven of the world's ten largest economies.

Welcome, Carine and Mark.

SENATORS' STATEMENTS
ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION
SUMMIT CONFERENCE HELD IN OSAKA, JAPAN

Hon. Jack Austin: Honourable senators, the purpose of these
remarks is to draw your attention to some of the main features of
Canada's role at the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Summit
Conference held in Osaka, Japan, last week. This summit
meeting was among the heads of government of the APEC
community, numbering 18 in all, including President Jiang
Zemin of China, Prime Minister Tomiichi Murayama of Japan,
Vice-President Al Gore of the United States and, of course,
Prime Minister Chrétien. Other members of the Canadian group
were Foreign Minister André Ouellet, International Trade
Minister Roy MacLaren and Secretary of State (Asia-Pacific)
Raymond Chan.
The reason for Canada's high-level focus on the Asia-Pacific
region is clear: Our trade with the region is 50 per cent greater in
value than our trade with the European Community. For
example, in the first six months of 1995, Canadian exports to
Pacific nations totalled $12.7 billion, compared with $8.1 billion
to the European Community.
The Asia-Pacific region is an economic powerhouse with
2 billion of the world's population. World trade with this

A critical step in advancing Canada's interests in the AsiaPacific region was achieved at the Osaka APEC summit on
November 19. Secretary of State (Asia-Pacific) Raymond Chan
announced that the 1997 APEC summit would be held in
Vancouver. At that time, Canada will chair the APEC process and
will host a number of APEC events, including the leaders'
meeting, several ministers' meetings and meetings involving
senior officials and the private sector. We will see a number of
preparatory meetings held in other centres in Canada. It is
estimated that 3,500 people from outside Canada will participate.
It is estimated as well that, by the year 2005, the Asia-Pacific
community will represent 50 per cent of global economic
growth, adding at least five new economies the size of Canada's
to global consumption. To secure our own business growth,
create the jobs we vitally need for our citizens and maintain our
social security system, we must be significant participants in the
Asia-Pacific region. We must plan on using 1997 to achieve a
greater profile and greater business participation in the
Asia-Pacific region.
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, I regret that
Senator Austin's time has expired. Is leave granted for him to
complete his remarks?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Senator Austin: We in the Senate should do our part to make
Canadians more aware of that region, where so many of our
future prospects lie.

[Translation]

[Englishi]
FIREARMS LEGISLATION

ROYAL CANADIAN MOUNTED POLICE

PRESENTATION OF RESOLUTION

CENTENNIAL OF ASSOCIATION WITH THE YUKON

Hon. Marcel Prud'homme: Honourable senators, whereas
since December 6, 1989, when 14 young women were killed at
the Ecole polytechnique in Montreal, over 1,000 people have
been killed by firearms, 300 have died in accidents. and more
than 6,000, including many young people, have committed
suicide in Canada;
Whereas three million people own seven million guns in
Canada;
Whereas since that day six years ago. a coalition of
organizations, including several from Montreal. has called for
effective gun control legislation in order to save lives;
Whereas the Canadian Association of Chiefs of Police and the
Canadian Police Association support the government bill
designed to better control the movement of firearms;
Whereas in June 1995, the House of Commons passed
Bill C-68 on gun control to the satisfaction of aIl those
concerned;
Whereas this bill, currently under Senate consideration, must
be passed quickly so that it can take effect in January 1996:
Whereas the Coalition for Gun Control. including the
December 6 victims' foundation against violence and the
families of the victims at Concordia University, is calling on the
Senate to take aIl necessary measures to ensure that Bill C-68 is
passed in time for the gun control legislation to take effect in
January 1996.
It is proposed by Councillor Daviau, seconded by Councillor
Lavallée and aIl the other members of the Municipal Council of
the City of Montreal;
First, that the Municipal Council of Montreal ask the Senate to
pass Bill C-68 quickly, that is to say, in time for the gun control
legislation to take effect in January 1996;
Second, that a copy of this resolution be sent to each senator.
(1410)

Therefore, I am pleased to table this resolution as I was asked
to do by ail members of the Municipal Council of the City of
Montreal, who were kind enough to welcome me and who
entrusted me with this delicate mission, which, of course, does
not affect in any way the discussion I would like to have during
the debate to be held in the next two days.

Hon. Paul Lucier: Honourable senators, in 1895, Inspector
Charles Constantine and a troop of 20 men of the Royal
Northwest Mounted Police arrived in the Yukon. Gold had been
discovered and. within three years, Dawson City was
transformed from a moose pasture to "the Paris of the North"
with a population of 30,000 people - the largest Canadian city
west of Winnipeg at that time.
During the stampede, Skagway. Alaska. was controlled by a
gang of thieves and murderers led by the notorious Soapy Smith.
Smith was eventually killed in a gunfight with a citizen, Frank
Reid, who died a week later of his wounds.
On the Canadian side of the border, law and order prevailed
because Superintendent Sam Steele and the Royal Northwest
Mounted Police ruled with a fair but iron will. From these
beginnings, the mounted police began its 100-year association
with the Yukon.
This year, 1995, is our Yukon Royal Canadian Mounted Police
centennial. Yukoners and tens of thousands of visitors have been
treated to a fantastic year of celebrations, parades. music and
displays by the force. We were even fortunate enough to have
had the famous Musical Ride in the Yukon. which thrilled
everyone who saw it.
Since Inspector Constantine's arrivai in 1895, we have
undoubtedly been serviced and protected by the best police force
in the world. Members who have served in the Northwest
Mounted Police have included, for example, former Corporal
G.I. Cameron who. at 95 years of age, is still living in
Whitehorse; Alan Innes Taylor and Special Constable Peter
Benjamin from Old Crow, dear friends of mine who passed away
some years ago; Inspector Frank Fitzgerald and his "lost patrol"
who perished between Fort McPherson and Dawson City, and
Inspector Jack Dempster, who located the bodies; and Captain
Henry Larsen, who not only made the first crossing of the
Northwest Passage but also made the trip in both directions. The
first crossing west to east took three years from 1940 to 1942,
inclusive.
Honourable senators. recent events at 24 Sussex Drive have
made life very difficulit for our Mounties across Canada. While
corrective actions have been and will continue to be taken, surely
this is a good time to let our members know that we appreciate
and support the task that they have taken upon themselves on our
behalf, and the difficulties that their families are suffering at this
time.

November 20, 1995

November20,
1995SENATE
DEBATES

I have personaliy been ticketed. arrested, assisted by, and have
worked with the RCMP in the Yukon. As well. I have attended
regimental dinners and coached RCMP hockey teams in
Whitehorse during my 47 years in the Yukon. A finer group of
people will not be found anywhere.
To Chief Superintendent Edward Henderson, soon to be
retired, Commanding Officer of the Yukon "M" Division in
Whitehorse, Sergeant Dana Gibbons at the Watson Lake
detachment, Constable Karen Olito of the Old Crow detachment,
and ai their colleagues, 1 say: "Thank you for being there when
we needed you."
NATIONAL CHILD DAY
Hon. Ethel Cochrane: Honourable senators, 1 would like to
add my voice to those who have spoken in recognition of the
celebration today of National Child Day.
As a former teacher, I have spent most of my adult life in the
company of children and youth. Since my appointment to the
Senate, I have frequently retumned to speak at schools throughout
my province. 1 arn well aware that our young people represent
the promise and potential of Canada's future.
Today, across our nation, we pay tribute 10 our future leaders,
innovators and entrepreneurs, and our future workers in al]
sectors of our economy. Today, 1 salute the children and the
youth of Canada.
Hon. Landon Pearson: Honourable senators, today, as my
colleague has just said. is National Child Day, a celebration of
children and a commemoration of the adoption of the Convention
on the Rights of the Child by the United Nations in 1989.
'he manner in which we celebrate demonstrates the value of
what is being celebrated, and nothing is more precious to the
health and prosperity of Canada than the well-being of our
children. As eIders of our nation, a category most of us fail inb,
we stand in a relaîionship of special trust ta the children of
Canada, far 100 many of whomn are poor, neglected, abused and
humiliated. We owe them protection, and we owe them support
for their growth and development.
In the context of today's debate on gun control, I believe we
also owe themn a "culture of caution" respecting the possession
and use of firearms. 1 acknowledge the legitimate use of guns and
I respect the hunter, but 1 can neyer forget that guns are designed
to kilI. We must ensure that our children are safeguarded from
their misuse, and that they do flot faîl victim 10 the use of guns,
either by accident or design. At the same time, we must also do
everything within our power 10 mitigate the difficult conditions
in which s0 many of our children now live and grow. This is the
only way we can make sure that neither today nor tomorrow will
they be tempted, out of anguish or anger, to turn a gun on
themselves or on others. On National Child Day, honourable
senators. let us deliberate with children on our minds.

2243
24

Hon. Sharon Carstairs: Honourable senators, 1 too rise to
speak on National Child Day.
Last week I watched a program on CBC in which a number of
maie and female students were interviewed and shown
interacting with one another at the high school level. The young
women were portrayed as being terribly subjected to physical
and sexual harassment. It was very sad to see the egos of those
young women being damaged because of what they were
subjected to on a daily basis. However, 1 aiso feit enormous
compassion for the young men who were portrayed. Somehow or
other, society has sent them the message that, in order to be
accepted within their own peer group, they must behave in a
,.macho" way.
Surely today, National Child Day, we must understand that
junior high school students, who are generally between the ages
of' il and 14, are children who need our guidance and our
direction. These are the children who need some societal
guidelines and objectives that unequivocally convey the message
that each and every young person should and can be his or her
own person, and need not feel pressure to be something they do
flot want to be. They should view the development of ego, with
ail of its strengths, as a positive challenge in their lives.
0(1420)

When dealing with young people, I ask that we ail strive to
give them the correct, positive images so that they can be the
very best that they can be, rather than the worst that they can be.
[Translation]

ROUTINE PROCEEDINGS
FIREARMS BILL
REPORT 0F COMMITTEE

Hon. Gérald-A. Beaudoin, Chairman of the Committee on
Legal and Constitutional Affairs, presented the following report:
Monday, November 20. 1995
The Standing Senate Committee on Legal and Constitutional
Affairs has the honour 10 present ats
SIXTEENTH REPORT
Your Committee, 10 which was referred Bill C-68, An Act
respecting firearms and other weapons, has, in obedience to
the Order of Reference of Thursday, June 22, 1995,
examined the said Bill and now reports the same with the
following amendments:

I. Pages 52 and 53, clause 112: strike out lines 25 to 44, on page
52 and lines 1 to 25. on page 53 and substitute the tbllowing:

(2) Subsection (1) does flot apply in respect of a replica
firearm.

"112.( 1) Subject to subsection (2) and section 112.2,
every person commits an oftence who possesses a firearrn
that is neither a prohibited firearîn nor a restricted firearîn.
unless the person is the holder of

112.2 (1) Every person who, immediately before the coming
into force of subsections 112(l1) and l12. 1(1), possessed a
firearm that is neither a prohibited firearm nor a restricted
firearm without a firearms acquisition certiticate because
(a) the person possessed the firearm before January 1,
1979. or

(a) a licence under which the person may possess the
tirearmn: and

(b) the firearms acquisition certificate under which the
person had acquired the firearm had expired

(b) a registration certificate f'or the firearm.
(2) Subsection (1 ) does not apply to

shall bc deemed for the purposes of those subsections to bc,
until January 1, 2001 or such other date after that date as is
prescrihed. the holder of a licence under which the person
may possess the tirearm.

(a) a person who possesses a firearmn while the person is
under the direct and immediate supervision of a person
who may lawfully possess it. for the purpose of using it in
a manner in which the supervising person may lawfully
use it:

(2) Every person who, immediately before the coming into
force of subsections 112( 1) and 112. 1( 1), possessed a
firearm that is neither a prohibited firearm nor a restricted
firearm and was the holder of a firearms acquisition
certificate shall bc deemed tor the purposes of those
subsections to, be, until January 1, 2001 or such other date
after that date as is prescribed. the holder of a licence under
which the person may possess the firearm.

(b) a person who cornes into possession of a tirearîn by
the operation of law and who. within a reasonable period
after acquiring possession of it,
(i) lawfully disposes of it. or
(ii) obtains a licence under which the person may
possess it and a registration certificate for the firearîn:

(3) Every person who. at any time between the coming into
force of subsection Il12( 1) and later oH anuary 1, 1998 and
such other date as is prescribed. possesses a firearm that is
neither a prohibited firearm nor a restricted firearîni shall be
deemed for the purposes of that subsection to be, until
January 1, 2003 or such date aller that date as is prescribed.
the holder of a registration certiticate for that firearîn."

or

(c) a person who possesses a firearîn and who is not the
holder of a registration certificate for the tirearmi if the
person
(i) has borrowed the firearîn:
(ii) is the holder of a licence under which the person
may possess it; and

2. Page 53, clause 11 5: strike out uines 36 to 39 and substitute
the following:
"115. Every person who commits an offence under section
112, 112.1, 113 or 114 is guilty of an oftence punishable on
summary conviction."

(iii) is in possession of the firearm to hunt or trap in
order to sustain the person or the person's family.

112.1 (1) Subject to subsection (2), every person commits
an offence who. being the holder of an authorization or a
licence under which the person may possess a firearîn that is
neither a prohibited firearm nor a restricted fîrearm.
possesses the firearîn at a place that is

3.

Page 58. new clause Il 7. 1: Add the following new clause:
"117.1 A museum is exempt from the payment of ail fees
prescribed under paragraph 11 7(j)."

4. Page 59, Clau.se 119: Strike out uines 20 to 23.
(a) indicated on the authorization or licence as being a
place where the person may not possess it;
(b) other than a place indicated on the authorization or
licence as being a place where the person may possess it:
or
(c) other than a place where it may be possessed under the
FirearnisAct.

1 Seiuitoi BeaLIdtn 1

5. Page 73, Clause 139: Strike out uines 33 to, 37.
6. Pages 77 and 78, Clause 139:
(a) on page 77, strike out uine 8 and suhstitute the following:
".offence who possesses a prohibited lirearrn or a restricted
firearîn. unless the', and

November 20, 1995

November20,
1995SENATE
DEBATES

2245
24

(b) strike out lines 28 ta 46 on page 77 and lines 1 ta 1l an
page 78 and substitute the following:

9. Page 79, Clause 139: strike out uine 41 and substitute the
following:

"(a) a persan who possesses a prohibited firearm, a
restricted firearrn. a prohibited weapon. a restricted
weapon, a prohibited device or any prohibited
ammunition while the persan is under the direct and
immediate supervision of a persan who rnay lawfully
possess it, for the purpose of using it in a manner in
whicli the supervising person may lawfully use it; or

"prohibited firearm, a restricted firearrn, a prohibited
weapan, a restricted"

(b) a person who cornes inta possession of a prohibited
firearm, a restricted firearrn, a prohibited weapan, a
restricted weapon, a prohibited device or any prohibited
ammunitian by the aperation of law and who, within a
reasonable period after acquiring possession of it,
(i) lawfully disposes of it, or
(ii) obtains a licence under which the person rnay
possess it and, in the case of a prohibited firearrn or a
restricted firearrn, a registration certificate for the
firearm."
7.

Pages 78 and 79, Clause 139:

(a) on page 78, strike out line 14 and substitute the
following:
"1offence who possesses a prohibited firearm or a restricted
firearrn, knowing that"; and
(b) strike out lines 42 ta, 45 on page 78 and lines 1 ta 36 an
page 79 and substitute the fallawing:
"(a) a persan who possesses a prohibited firearrn, a
restricted firearm, a prohibited weapon, a restricted
weapon, a prahibited device or any prahibited
ammunitian while the persan is under the direct and
immediate supervision of a persan wha rnay lawfully
passess it, for the purpose of using it in a manner in
which the supervising persan rnay lawfully use it; or
(b) a persan who cornes into possession of a prohibited
firearrn, a restricted firearrn, a prohibited weapon, a
restricted weapon, a prohibited device or any prohibited
ammunitian by the aperation of Iaw and who, within a
reasanable period after acquiring possession af it,
(i) Iawfully disposes of it, or
(ii) obtains a licence under which the persan may
possess it and, in the case of a prohibited firearrn or a
restricted firearrn, a registration certificate for the
firearm."
8. Page 78, Clause 139: strike out lines 28 ta 40 and substitute
the following:
'indictable affence and liable ta irnprisonrnent for a term
flot exceeding ten years."

10. Page 84, Clause 139: strike out line 32 and substitute the
following:
"94(l) and the later of January"
11. Page 111, Clause 139: strike out lines 22 ta 29 and substitute
the following:
"(2) In rnaking regulations, the Govemnor in Council rnay
flot prescribe any thing ta be a prohibited firearrn, a
restricted firearrn, a prohibited weapan. a restricted weapon,
a prohibited device or prohibited ammunitian if the thing ta
be prescribed is reasanable for use in Canada for hunting or
sparting purposes."
12. Page 111, Clause 139: add after line 29 the following:
"(3) The Minister of Justice shahl lay or cause ta be laid
before each House of Parliarnent, at least thirty sitting days
before its effective date, every regulation that is proposed ta
be made under subsection (1), and every apprapriate
camrnittee as deterrnined by the rules of each House of
Parliarnent rnay conduct enquiries or public hearings with
respect ta the proposed regulatian and report its findings ta
the appropriate House.
(4) For the purpose of subsection (3), "sitting day" means,
in respect of either House of Parliament, a day on which that
House sits."
13. Page 137, Clause 193: add after line 17, the following:
"(3) Notwithstanding subsections (1) and (2). no arder shail
be made by the Govemaor in Council pursuant ta subsection
(1) or section 117 that applies ta the aboriginal peoples of
Canada until full and considered consultations have been
carried out so as ta ensure that the existing aboriginal or
treaty rights recognized and affirrned by section 35 of the
Constitution Act, 1982 would flot be abrogated or derogated
frorn by such an order."
14. Page 137, New Clause 194: add after line 17, the following
new Clause:
"194.(1) This Act or any of its provisions or any provision
of any other Act enacted or arnended by this Act as it relates
ta the registration of a firearm that is flot a prohibited
firearrn or a restricted firearrn shaîl corne inta force in a
province in accordance with an order issued under section
193, unless an Act of the hegislature of the province
authorizes the possession of a firearm that is not a
prohibited tirearm or restricted firearm.

(2) Subsections 91(1). 92(l), 93(l ) and 94(l) and paragraph
11 7.03(1 )(a) of the Crimninal Code as enacted by section 139
of this Act as they relate to a possession of a tirearrn that is
not a prohibited firearm or restricted firearrn shall corne into
force in a province in accordance with an order issued under
section 193. unless there is an Act of the legisiature ot the
province that authorizes the possession of a firearm that is
not a prohibited irearmn or restricted tirearm.
(3) An Act of the legisiature referred to in subsections()
and (2) means an Act that is in force on the day this Act is
assented to or an Act that cornes into force not later than six
rnonths after the day this Act is assented to.
(4) Notwithstanding that an Act of the legisiature referred to
in subsections ( 1) and (2) is in force in a province, this Act
or any of its provisions or any provision of any othcî Act
enacted or arnended by this Act as it relates to the
registration or possession of a firearrn that is not a
prohibited firearrn or a restricted firearrn shall corne int
force in that province eight years after this Act is assented

Monday, November 20. 1995
The Standing Senate Cornrittee on Banking. Trade and
Commrerce bas the honour to prescrnt its
TWENTY-FOURTH REPORT
Your Cornrittee. to which was retèrred the Bill C-93. An
Act bo arnend the Cultural Property Exporb and Irnport Act.
the Incorne Tax Act and the Tax Court of Canada Act, bas.
in obedience to the Order of Reference of Thursday.
Novernber 2, 1995. exarnined the said Bill and now reports
the sarne without arnendrnent.
Respectfully subrnitted,
JOHN SYLVAIN
I)eputv, Chairinan

to.

(5) When the provisions referred to in subsection (1) corne
into force in a province as a resuit of the repeal of the Act of
the legisiature referred to in that subsection or in accordance
with subsection (4), every person who, on the corning into
force of the provisions of this Act in the province. possesses
a firearrn that is not a prohibited firearrn or a restricted
firearrn is deerned f'or the purpose of' section 112(1) of' this
Act and subsections 91(l). 92(l1) and 94(1 ) of the Criinial
Code to be the holder of a registration certificate for that
firearrn for a period of two years."
Respectfully siîbritted.
GÉRALD-A. BEAUDOIN

Chairtnan

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators. when shall this
report be taken

mbt

consideration?

On mnotion of Senator Beaudoin. with leave of the Senate and
notwithstanding rule 58(1 )(g). report placed on the Orders of the
Day for consideration later this day.
[Ei glish]

CULTURAL PROPERTY EXPORT AND IMPORT ACT
INCOME TAX ACT
TAX COURT 0F CANADA ACT
BILL TO AMEND-REPORT 0F COMM ITTEE

Hon. John Sylvain, Deputy Chairruan of the Standing Senate
Cornrittee on Banking, Trade and Commrerce, presented the
following report:

[Senatii Beaudon n

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators. when shahl this
bill be read the third tirne?
On rnotion of Senator Graharn, bill placed on the Orders of the
Day for third reading at the next sitting of the Senate.

NATIONAL DEFENCE
SPECIAL COMMISSION ON RESTRIJCVURING 0F TIIE
RESERVES NOTICE OF MOTION TO RFFI REPORT TO SOCIAL
AFFAIRS. SCIENCE AND TECHINOLOGY COMMIT IEE

Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourable senator. 1 give notice that tornorrow,
Tuesday, November 21, 1995, 1 will rnove:
That the Standing Senabe Cornrittee on Social Affairs,
Science and Technology be authorized to examnine the report
of the Special Cornrission on the Restructuring of the
Reserves. tabled in the Senate on Novernber 7, 1995;
That the cornrittee prescrnt its final report no later than
January 15, 1996; and
That notwithstanding usual practices. if the Senate is not
sitting when the final report ot the cornrittee is completed,
the cornrittee shaîl deposit its report with the Cherk of the
Senate. and said report shail thereupon be deerned to have
been tabled in this charnber.

SENATE DEBATES

November 20, 1995

GUN CONTROL LEGISLATION

2247

PRESENTATION OF PETITIONS

government is accused of crimes of such a nature, everyone in
the rest of world who has been made aware of this accusation
wonders exactly what is happening.

Hon. Brenda M. Robertson: Honourable senators, I have the
honour to present a petition on behalf of the constituency of
Carleton-Charlotte in the province of New Brunswick, signed
by 754 citizens who are asking the Senate to delete in their
entirety all of those portions of Bill C-68 dealing with the
registration of firearms.

I am very distressed by this incident, as are many other
Canadians. I want to know - and Canadians have a right to
know - who approved this letter before it went out? When were
the Deputy Minister of Justice and the Minister of Justice
apprised of it? When did they approve it, and on what basis did
they do so?

Hon. John Lynch-Staunton (Leader of the Opposition):
Honourable senators, on behalf of 210 Canadians who live in
Elgin and Middlesex counties in Ontario, I should like to present
a petition asking the Senate not to proceed with Bill C-68.

0 (1430)

QUESTION PERIOD
JUSTICE
SALE OF AIRBUS AIRCRAFT TO AIR CANADAALLEGED CONSPIRACY TO DEFRAUD FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT-APPROVAL FOR LEITER TO SWISS
AUTHORITIES-GOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. John Lynch-Staunton (Leader of the Opposition):
Honourable senators, in its November 18-20 issue, which was
available on Saturday, the FinancialPost, in a front-page article,
reported, in part, that the Justice Department had asked
Switzerland for information to support allegations of, to quote
the Justice Department's letter, "criminal activity on the part of a
former Prime Minister" of Canada. According to the article, the
letter is signed by Kimberly Prost, who is identified as a Justice
Department senior counsel.
Honourable senator, I am unaware of any instance where, ever
before in the history of this country, a former prime minister has
been subjected to such extremely serious allegations. Were it to
end there, it would be bad enough. However, the article goes on
to say that the letter concludes that there was a "persisting
plot/conspiracy by Mr. Mulroney [and others]...who defrauded
the Canadian government in the amount of millions of dollars."
If this report is accurate, the letter goes beyond making
allegations; it accuses Mr. Mulroney of serious crimes, in
obviously carefully selected language.
Such a letter is not an ordinary letter. It is a
government-to-government communication. It deals with
suspected criminal activities by a former prime minister of
Canada. Such a letter is certainly not simply put in the mail and
sent on its way. It cannot have simply been signed by a senior
bureaucrat in the Justice Department. It must have been approved
by higher authorities.
Not only is one individual's reputation at stake, the entire
country's reputation is at stake. When a former leader of the

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, as I understand it, the letter in question
came about as a result of an investigation undertaken by the
RCMP. In turn, the RCMP asked the Department of Justice to
forward a letter to other authorities in an attempt to seek further
information, which is the normal course in these kinds of
procedures.
I wish to inform my honourable friend that in this case, and in
others, the minister has not been involved. I repeat, he was not
involved in this case, nor was he made aware of the request in
this case. When asked about this story on Saturday while he was
overseas, the Prime Minister himself indicated that he, too, was
unaware of this case.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: Honourable senators, I find that to
be the most unbelievable answer to any question raised in
Parliament since God knows when. I cannot believe that this
letter is similar, as this press release tries to point out, to 100 or
150 such letters which are sent out during the course of requests
by police departments across the country for information which
can only be found in other countries.
I wish to quote from an article in today's Globe and Mail
which is found in Quorum. It states in part:
- excerpts from a Swiss Federal Public Prosecutor's Office
document -

It is the Swiss authorities who claim:
Director Kimberly Prost, acting on behalf of the Canadian
Minister of Justice and Attorney-General Are we to accept the fact that a former Prime Minister of
Canada can be subjected to such a request? Are we to be told that
Kimberly Prost wrote this letter and that no one else in the
department at a more senior level than herself saw it? This is a
letter written on behalf of the Government of Canada to another
government which affects the reputation of a former prime
minister of Canada. Are we to believe that no one in this
government knows what is going on? Are we to believe that the
letter included the following information without the knowledge
of anyone in the govemment, including the Minister of Justice,
the Clerk of the Privy Council and the Prime Minister of
Canada? The Swiss authorities write as follows:
The investigating authorities assume -

This refers to the Canadian investigating authorities.
- that, from 1988-1991 alone, more than Can. $11 -million
was transferred in this manner and, if all 34 aircraft had
been supplied, the commissions would have totalled about
Can. $20-million (possibly U.S.$), 25 per cent of which for
the benefit of the accused Mulroney.
Is the Leader of the Government trying to tell us that the senior
counsel at the Department of Justice wrote this letter on her own,
that the Deputy Minister and the Minister of Justice knew
nothing of it and that the Privy Council and the Prime Minister
were not advised? Is this what we call the protection of the
fundamental rights of Canadians? Shame!
Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators, I will reiterate what
I have said for the Leader of the Opposition. I understand my
friend's point of view. However, this is a legal process that has
been used by governments and by the RCMP over the years.
Such a request is passed on internationally, as they have been
many times before, through the Department of Justice. Ministers
have not been involved in the past, were not involved in this case
and, presumably, will not be involved in the future in such
matters. Nor are they advised about the substance of these
investigations.
Some Hon. Senators: Shame!
Senator Fairbairn: That is the procedure under the laws of
Canada. The Minister of Justice and the Prime Minister did not
know. That is the process that has been used in our country. It is
the process that was used in this case. There was no intervention
hy a minister. The minister was not involved in the
decision-making process of this case.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: Honourable senators. by the refusal
of the Minister of Justice to accept the responsibility. and by the
Prime Minister once again detaching himself from what is going
on around him. we can only assume that they gave their tacit
approval to this accusation. Unfortunately, it reminds me of when
the then Minister of Justice, Lucien Cardin, blurted out a word
which turned out to be "Munsinger," and we were launched into
the Spence inquiry. It was interesting that at the time, the
government was privy to RCMP documents and fully informed.
and used that information when it was appropriate to use it for
political partisan reasons. I can only think that history is
repeating itself today.
Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators, the government was
not privy to RCMP information. It was not manipulating RCMP
information. It was not intervening in any case that was being
carried out under the process of the laws of this country.
SALE OF AIRBUS AIRCRAFT TO AIR CANADA-ALLEGED
CONSPIRACY TO DEFRAUD FEDERAI GOVERNMENT-MOTIVATION
FOR RCMP INVESTIGATION-GOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. Gerry St. Germain: Honourable senators, my question
is lor the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Over and

1 Senalor Lx neh -Stiiýii 1

above all the other matters, the disturbing aspect of this incident
is that it appears that actions are being instituted by the Royal
Canadian Mounted Police and other authorities within
government, based on television programs and media reports.

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, I am not, nor should I be, aware of the
substance of the RCMP investigation. The RCMP has been
undertaking an investigation, obviously, based on whatever
information it has. It is not information to which I, the Minister
of Justice or the Prime Minister should be privy. It would be
totally improper and inappropriate if that were the case.
Senator St. Germain: Honourable senators, I am not referring
to whether any minister should be involved in the process of the
administration of justice as such. I am referring to the fact that, in
a report broadcast yesterday by the CBC, the Prime Minister
indicated that this investigation was taking place because of a TV
program and a report in the media, and that they were the basis
for this investigation proceeding.
Honourable senators. as a politician, I find it disturbing when
our good friends at the CBC or some other network decide to put
on such a program, when they have erred in so many cases
before. They decide to take a run at someone in this place or the
other place and. based on their reporting or innuendo, a major
investigation is triggered into allegations that are possibly
politically motivated. and which may get out of control. That is
my concern.

Based on what the Prime Minister said in the interview abroad.
I tend to believe that that is the basis upon which this particular
incident is going ahead. Could other such instances not take
place in this country, affecting members of this place and the
other place? I should like the Leader of the Government to
comment. It is time that we laid our cards on the table and found
out what is going on. If this is a politically motivated activity,
then Canadians should know about it.
0

L440>i

Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators, I thought I was
clear but, obviously, I was not, so I will repeat what I said.
This is not, by any stretch of the imagination or in any way,
shape or form, a politically motivated activity.

Sorne Hon. Senators: Oh. Oh!
Senator Fairbairn: My honourable friends may laugh, but
this process has been undertaken - I repeat - by the RCMP
using whatever sources of information are available to them. We
are not aware of those details. It would be, I suggest, absolutely
improper for the Prime Minister or the Minister of Justice to be
involved in, or to intervene in, any decision-making process
involving the kind of investigations undertaken by the RCMP.
That absolutely underlines my answer to my honourable friend.
This is not, in any way, a politically motivated process.

November 20, 1995

November 20, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

SENATE DEBATES

Senator St. Germain: Honourable senators, the Honourable
Leader of the Government in the Senate is not answering my
question.
If there is a witch hunt or a fishing expedition going on, why is
it that the Minister of Justice and the Prime Minister are not
intervening? My question relates directly to a TV program and a
media report. According to the Prime Minister, this coverage
triggered this particular incident.
I am concerned as a senator, and that concern extends to my
colleagues in the other place. I am concerned about our
parliamentary system as a whole if we allow people, based on
some media report, to conduct a witch hunt or a fishing
expedition, or whatever you want to call it, which would trigger
an activity which is directed against any parliamentarian. This is
reason for concern. It was the Prime Minister who said it was
based on the media scenario, not me. That is the question I want
answered.
Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators, the question of what
motivated the RCMP investigation is known to the RCMP.
Senator St. Germain: The Prime Minister said it on
television.
Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators, I will be quite
prepared to review comments made by the Prime Minister, but
the Prime Minister, in his comments abroad, has made it
perfectly clear that when this issue arose on the weekend, that
was his first knowledge of it.
Hon. John Lynch-Staunton (Leader of the Opposition): It
was just like the referendum. He just realized, a few days before,
that it was being held. Where does he live, this man? The land of
make-believe?
Senator Fairbairn: My friend has used certain rather
aggressive words. I am simply saying to him, once again, that
this process was carried out through the RCMP. The Prime
Minister, the Minister of Justice and other ministers should
not - and must not - be part of any kind of manipulation of
those kinds of investigations.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: By way of supplementary, the
RCMP are an easy target these days. However, the RCMP did
not sign the letter; the RCMP did not send the letter. The letter
was signed and sent by an official of the Department of Justice
on the Department of Justice letterhead.
The RCMP went to the Department of Justice and said: "Look,
we think we have something going here. Will you help us find
what we hope to find?" The Department of Justice, on behalf of
the Government of Canada, said: "Sure, we will have fun here.
We will pick on Mulroney again. Let's go for it."
The Minister of Justice knows nothing; the PCO knows
nothing; it just involves another 150 requests, as this press

2249
2249

release says. It does not matter if you are a drug dealer, an
accused serial rapist or if you are known across the world as a
counterfeiter or a former prime minister of Canada, everyone
should be treated the same. The minister knows nothing. The
Prime Minister knows nothing. Nobody knows anything. Lay it
all on the RCMP. I should stop this, because it just gets worse
and worse.
Senator Fairbairn: The RCMP is a law enforcement agency
in this country with a very high reputation. Again I say the
Minister of Justice and the Prime Minister should not be
involved, and must not be involved, in these issues.
My friend opposite laughs at the news release. In the news
release -

Senator Lynch-Staunton: It is so pathetic that I think it was
written by Robert Nixon.
Senator Fairbairn: The process of this kind of investigation
was clearly set out in the news release, as was the comment that
the minister is not informed of these requests, and was not made
aware of the request in this case.
[Translation]
SALE OF AIRBUS AIRCRAFT TO AIR CANADAALLEGED CONSPIRACY TO DEFRAUD FEDERAL GOVERNMENTRCMP INVESTIGATIVE PROCEDURES-REQUEST FOR PARTICULARS

Hon. Pierre Claude Nolin: Honourable senators, the
Honourable Leader of the Government is referring to a
longstanding procedure.
Would it be possible for you to transmit to us the specific text
of this procedure so that we might be in a position to judge
whether it has, indeed, been properly followed?
[English]

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, the process was carried out, as I am
advised, in accordance with the law and the rules of procedure
that have governed that sort of process for many years. I will
certainly convey my honourable friend's request, but this is not a
new process. It is not a new way of dealing with these kinds of
issues.
What would be extraordinarily new and inappropriate is if the
Minister of Justice and the Prime Minister of Canada were
involved in this in any way. That would be improper.
[Translation]

Senator Nolin: Honourable senators, from the response of the
Leader of the Government, I take it that even if it is an old
procedure, it is surely written down somewhere -

Senator Gauthier: It is given in the Constitution.
Senator Nolin: No. it is not a constitutional question. but a
question of tbe rules and procedures followed by tbe Department
of Justice.
I would ask the Leader of the Govemment to provide us with
the precise text according to which this Deparlment of Justice
employee acted. as well as the autbority under wbicb she acted,
and the procedure sbe followed.
[Eiiglisçh]
SALE 0F AIRBUS AIRCRAFT TO AIR CANADAALLEGED CONSPIRACY TO DEFRAUD FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT-EOUALITY OF CITIZENS BEFORE THE
LAW-REQUEST FOR CONFIRMATION

Hon. Hlerbert O. Sparrow: Furtber on tbis subject, I would
like veritication of tbe fact. altbougb you bave already donc so.
that no one in this country is above tbe law. It sbould be of no
consequence if tbat person is a member of the Senate. the House
of Commons. a former prime minister. or holds any rank held by
any of tbe other people mentioncd in tbe releases we are
discussing.
1 do believe - and 1 hope the Leader of tbe Government in the
Senate is confirming - that, where any action is taken regarding
any citizen, whetber he be a former prime minister or otherwise,
tbere sbould be no interference in that process. 1 am asking for
confirmation that. regardless of one's position. no one in tbis
country is above tbe law.

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, 1 would be pleased to confirmn tbat to my
bonourable friend. Tbat underlines tbe very reason why no one.
no malter bow high their position. wbether a minister of Justice
or a prime minister. would be able to in any way influence or
interfère in this kind of a process.
SALE OF AIRBUS AIRCRAFT TO AIR CANADAALLEGED CONSPIRACY TO DEFRAUD FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT-NUMBERS OF RCMP INVESTIGATIONS
PUBLICIZED-REOUEST FOR PARTICULARS

Hon. Eric Arthur Berntson (Deputy Leader of the
Opposition): Could the Leader of the Govemment in tbe Senate
indicate how many of tbe 100 to 150 sucb requests tbat are made
eacb year are made public'?
9

5o )

Senator Berntson: Honourable senators, 1 notice that there
was no paragraph in the press release deploring the tact that this
particular request, out of a total of 100 to 150, was made public.
Has there been any internai investigation to discover why this
particular request was made public?
Senator Fairbairn: 1 would be pleased to follow up on that
question.

Hon. Consiglio Di Nino: Bet'ore 1 ask my question, 1 would
also suggest to, the Honourable Leader of the Government in the
Senate that if she can obtain an answer to my bonourable friend's
first question. it would be very informative for aIl of us. That is:
0f the number of requests dealt with on an annual basis. how
many are made public? 1 would like to have that information.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: Only wben it suits tbem.
[Later]
SALE OF AIRBUS AIRCRAFT TO AIR CANADA-ALLEGED
CONSPIRACY TO DFFRAUD FEDERAL GOVERNMENTREQUESI FOR TABLINC, 0F LETVER TO SWISS AUTHORITIES

Hon. J. Michael Forrestali: Honourable senators, one is
tempted to ask the Leader of the Government wbether she might
care to urge upon ber colleagues in cabinet. particularly the
Minister of Justice, that tbis particular letter be tabled so that
Canadians migbî understand our concern witb maintaining the
very clear idea of what is an investigation and wbat is an outrnght
accusation; an accusation tor whicb 1 join with my leader iii
ascribing shame to eacb and every one of the members on the
opposite side of this chamber.
Is tbere any possibility of' baving that letter tabled?

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government): 1 cannot
answer that question, Senator Forrestaîl. I will take it as

-

Senator Forrestali: Will the Leader of tbe Government take
the earliest possible opportunity to ascertain wbetber or not it is
possible to have this letter made available? After aIl, it bas been
made available to tbe world.
Senator Fairbairn: 1 will take the senator's question as
notice.

IMMIGRATION
DEPORTATION 0F MEMBER OF- ALLEGED TERRORIST
ORGANIZATION DECLARATION 0F
FEDERAI COURT 0F CANADA

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government): To my
bonourable friend, 1 bave no idea as to tbe classification of this
information. Obviously. no matter who it touches. tbis is
expected to be a confidential exchange of information. In any
event. 1 cannot answer my honourable triend's question about the
100 to 150 requests. nor do 1 have the knowledge to judge
whether or not that is an appropriate question.

Hon. Consiglio Di Nino: As reported in tbe November 7
edition of The Globe and Maili, the Federal Court of Canada
declared tbat it was unconstitutional to deport someone wbo
bolds membership in an organization that is likely to engage in
terrorist acts. This was an issue relating 10 a Mr. Issam Yamani. a
Palestinian wbo was alle-ed to bave been a member of the PLO.

SENATE DEBATES

November 20, 1995

Can the Leader of the Govemment in the Senate tell us what is
the position of the Government of Canada on this issue?
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government): I regret,
honourable senators, that I do not have sufficient background on
that question. However, I would be pleased to obtain an answer
for my honourable friend.
Senator Di Nino: Honourable senators, this is a serious issue.
It is the kind of action which I believe weakens the tolerance of
Canadians towards immigration.
Would the minister please also determine whether or not the
Govemment of Canada is prepared to appeal this ruling to the
Supreme Court of Canada?
Senator Fairbairn: I will seek information on that aspect as
well, hounourable senators.
[Translation]

ELECTIONS CANADA
ELECTORAL BOUNDARIES READJUSTMENT PROCESSEXTENSION OF DEADLINE-REQUEST FOR PARTICULARS

Hon. Pierre Claude Nolin: Honourable senators, the
redistribution of the electoral map and the establishment of new
electoral boundaries in Canada is drawing to a close. Some
members have argued about the boundaries of their own ridings.
We know that the present law provides for this process. The
House of Commons decided to delay the deadline for considering
and tabling its report with the Speaker of the House of
Commons.
Could the Leader of the Govemment in the Senate tell us the
exact date the Speaker of the House of Commons will be given
the final report?
[English]

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government): I must
tell my honourable friend Senator Nolin that I cannot answer that
question in terms of the specific date, but I will speak with my
colleagues on the other side with respect to this matter.
[Translation]

Hon. Marcel Prud'homme: Honourable senators, I have a
supplementary on the same subject.

2251

It is now November 20, and the Commons committee is still
considering these reports from the provinces. They asked the
House for an extension and they were given an extension. My
question is as follows: How many more extensions will they need
to finish consideration of this bill?
The Senate was given the assurance that there was a definite
time frame, but so far none of the deadlines have been met. We
are to vote on your motion to the effect that the Standing Senate
Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs be instructed to
submit its final report to the Senate.
Meanwhile, all they have been doing in the House of
Commons is to ask for postponements. This very straightforward
process is costing taxpayers nearly $6 million. Of course this is
not a speech but a question.
Could you give us some assurances tomorrow, before we vote
on the motion? I do not want a written answer. I would like to
have an oral answer here in the Senate. How much longer will
the committee of the House of Commons postpone tabling its
report?
[English]

Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators, obviously the area
for which we have responsibility here is the progress of
Bill C-69, which is currently before the Standing Senate
Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs. Tomorrow, we
will find out whether that committee is as yet ready to report on
that bill and place its report before the Senate.
With respect to what is happening in the other place, they are
involved in their own procedures. I know only what my
honourable friend knows at this point: that their process at the
moment takes them to November 30, I believe. However, I am
not privy to any inside information from the other place.
Senator Prud'homme: This is not inside information. These
are public requests.
There is a game now being played between the House of
Commons and the Senate. They are asking to postpone
something that should have been done a long time ago, in order
to wait and see just what will happen to Bill C-69. In my humble
estimation, there is no relation between the two. Bill C-69 is one
thing, but the due process of law that should have taken place is
something else. There is now a game of chicken going on
between the House and the Senate to see who will give in first.
S(1500)

We know that the Senate was given assurances that the report
would be tabled as scheduled. Members had until October 19 to
make presentations, consider various aspects and ask the Speaker
of the House of Commons to transmit their report to the Chief
Electoral Officer of Canada. The Chief Electoral Officer would
then transmit the report to the various commissions which had
30 days to respond.

I do not think extending the time in the House of Commons on
something that should have been completed, in order to see what
will happen in the Senate, is conducting the affairs of the country
in a proper manner. I hope that the Honourable Leader of the
Government in the Senate will bring to the attention of those
responsible in the other place our great displeasure at this move.

We understand the game being played. We are flot fools. We
know a game is being played between the two houses. Lt is flot in
the best interests of those of us who helieve that we should
defend, in a very strict way. the moncy being spent at the
moment. and the money that would be spent if we were to pass
Bill C-69.

Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators, my primary concemn
is to sec that this house and its cummittees do their jobs. That is
what we are in the process of doing. Unlike my honourable
friend, 1 will flot characterize the activity of people in the other
place one way or the other. They are operating within their area
of authority; we are operating within ours. 1 hope we wiIl do a
good job.

At this time there are two studies underway that are
examining our facilities and ships. The Facility
Rationaization study is examining ail existing hases and
locations where the combined fleet could be best supported.
The Fleet Integration Study is examining the total DFO
program requirement and the complete fleet needed to
deliver the programs. The resuits of these studies are
expected over the winter.
[Translation]

ORDERS 0F THE DAY

DELAYED ANSWER TO ORAL QUESTION
Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourable senators. 1 have a response to a
question raised in the Senate on October 17. 1995, by the
Honourable Senator Forrestaîl regarding the merger of the
Canadian Coast Guard with the Department of Fisheries and
Oceans.

TRANSPORT
MERGER 0F CANADIAN COAST GUARD WITI-I DEPARTIENT 0F
FISIIERIES ANt) OCEANS GOVERNMENT POSITION

(Response to question raised b-v Hon. J. Michael Forrestaîl on
October 17, 1995)
These reports are not accurate.
The speculation in the press regarding the elimination of
some 150 shiphoard jobs and 24 vessels from the service
and the closure of' the Coast Guard base in Dartmouth is
based on a study completed in the fall of 1994 that
examined options to have the Coast Cuard and Fisheries and
Oceans l'leets operate within a more independent
organization. The resuits of these studies were overtaken by
events such as the Program Review and the announcement
in the Febmuary 1995 Budget Statement that the Canadian
Coast Guard would merge with the Department of Fisheries
and Oceans (DFO). Copies of the studies are aval lable upon
request.
The only reductions affecting the Coast Guard continue to
be the ones that were planned before the merger. To
summarize. these reductions are: $32 Million based on
restructuring and reengineerng (c.g. Lightstations, Marine
Communications and Trafic Services. ELIINM Integration.
Shop/Base Maintenance): $30 Million in Levels of Service
reductions (e.g. Dredging. Aids to Navigation Standards):
$25 Million for- CCG Fleet Integration (e.g. Best Practices.
Seasonalization ).

1 Senai or

Pru[d('hommne 1

FIREARMS BILL
CONSIDERATION 0F REPORT 0F COMMITTEEDEBATE ADJOURNED

The Senate proceeded to, consideration of the Sixteenth Report
of the Standing Senate Committee on Legal and Constitutional
Affairs, presented in the Senate carlier today.

Hon. Gérald-A. Beaudoin: Honourable senators. after
conducting several weeks of public hearings, listening to more
than 160 witnesses. examining more than 1.300 briefs and
listening to a presentation by thc Minister of' Justice at the
beginning and conclusion of our public hearings. today the
Standing Senate Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs
has tabled its report and proposes the tbllowing amendments to
Bill C-68.
A number ot questions were raised about the process for
consulting with aboriginal peoples. A majority of committee
members believes that Bill C-68 should not come into force
before sufficient consultation with aboriginal peoples. in
accordance with their treaties and the relevant provisions in the
Constitution.
This majority also recommends that the coming into force of
Bill C-68 should be at the discretion of each province; this option
comes with a maximum extension of two additional years. after
which the bill would automatically become law in the provinces
that took advantage of the option. This amendment was the result
of a joint presentation made before the commitice last September
by witnesses representing Manitoba, Saskatchewan, Alberta,
Yukon and the Northwest Temrtories in which they mentioned the
various reasons why Bill C-68 would be difficult to entorce.
[En glish]
This is why a majority of members of the committec have
proposed an amendment that we may designate as the
-opting-in" formula. Through an act of its legislature, any
province or territory would be able to delay the start of the
implementation of the licensing and registration scheme with
respect to shotguns and ritles l'or up to eight vears. However. ail
prov isions of' the legislation wou Id be fui y enforced i n ail
provinces and territories within 10l years.

November 20, 1995

November 20. 1995

SENATE DEBATES

2253
2253

SENATE DEBATES

[Translation]

[English]

As for the draft regulations, we propose that the Minister of
Justice take a more traditional approach by tabling the draft
regulations at least 30 sitting days before their effective date so
that public hearings can be held, if necessary.

Muzzle-loading firearms, such as muskets and antique
collectibles. do not pose a significant threat to society. The
proposed section 84(3.1) of Bill C-68 would impose on antiques
all the regulatory restrictions for regular firearms. The current
law does not contain that requirement.

Another amendment is aimed at deleting the words "in the
opinion of the Governor in Council" in subclause 117.15(2).
Otherwise, the minister could add firearms to the list of
prohibited weapons, and this decision would not be reviewable
by the courts. In fact, the Canadian courts have said many times
that their opinions cannot replace those of the minister, that is to
say, of the Governor in Council. One way of allowing the courts
to review the minister's decisions is to delete the words "in the
opinion of the Governor in Council" in subclause 117.15(2) of
Bill C-68.
[English]

The majority of the members of the committee are of the
opinion that the registration system of firearms should not be
criminalized. An amendment would transfer to the actual
Firearms Act part of the offences related to the possession of
firearms. The potential penalties and consequences for these
administrative offences, as presently set out in Bill C-68, are, in
their opinion, excessive when compared to similar offences
related to motor vehicles and driving licences.
[Translation]

The minimum prison terms provided in clause 92(3) of
Bill C-68 were discussed. Every person who possesses a
prohibited or restricted weapon, knowing that he or she does not
have the proper licence, is liable to a minimum term of
imprisonment of one year in the case of a second offence, and of
two years less a day in the case of a third offence. A majority of
committee members feel that these provisions on minimum
punishment are excessive and violate section 12 of the Canadian
Charter of Rights and Freedoms. Such provisions on minimum
punishment prevent judges from using their discretionary power
and assessing a penalty based on the circumstances of each case.
Moreover, many crimes more serious than those provided for in
Bill C-68 are not subject to minimum punishment provisions.
This is the case for homicide, attempted murder and dangerous
driving resulting in bodily injury. Consequently, the committee
proposes that these minimum punishment provisions be
eliminated.
A majority of committee members also feel that museums
should be exempted from having to pay licence fees. The
Canadian Museums Association stated that museums would have
to pay more than four million dollars to meet the current
requirements of Bill C-68. Under the existing act, museums do
not have to pay annual fees. We feel that this should continue to
be the case.
Other concerns were raised regarding antique weapons.

It would become a criminal offence, for example, to hang a
musket on the wall over the fireplace. The committee
recommends that this provision be deleted.
[Translation]

It goes without saying that these eight substantive amendments
trigger several consequential amendments.
Honourable senators, that is a brief presentation on the
amendments proposed by the Standing Senate Committee on
Legal and Constitutional Affairs.
0 (151o)

[English]

Hon. Sharon Carstairs: Honourable senators, as I sat last
Thursday in the Standing Senate Committee on Legal and
Constitutional Affairs and learned of the way in which senators
opposite wanted to amend this legislation, my first reaction was
to be absolutely appalled, because this was not sober second
thought; this was evisceration. This was taking the blood and
guts of a piece of legislation and throwing it out.
As I spent Friday, Saturday and Sunday in contemplation of
these amendments, I was filled with deep sadness - sadness for
the many victims who have been threatened, harassed, shot and,
in far too many instances, killed by illegally owned weapons in
this country; sadness for emergency physicians who see the
attempted -

and all-too-often successful -

shootings and

suicides; sadness for the police officers who will still not know
what weapons are in a home to which they are called during an
incident of domestic violence; and sadness for the families of
children who are accidentally shot and, in far too many cases,
killed.
Honourable senators, in my view, the amendments which have
been presented to you today in this report range from the
mischievous to the downright dangerous. The report of this
committee, as outlined by Senator Beaudoin, contains seven
substantive amendments, and I wish to deal with each and every
one of those.
I shall begin with the three amendments which I consider to be
mischievous. The first deals with the removal of fees for
museums, the second with safe storage provisions for antique
firearms, and the third with aboriginal peoples. Following that, I
shall deal with the amendments which I consider to be
dangerous.

First. with regard to the remioval of fees for museums. tbere
are 100,000 weapons in museums across this country. Some of
tbem are probibited; some of them are restricted; some of them
are antique. Some of these museumns operate for profit; some do
flot.
The minister made it very clear when he discussed museums
that consideration would be given in the regulatiofis to the
budgetary limitations imposed upon museums. However we
surely must have knowledge and information of what weapons
are in those museums. We must assure ourselves of the safe
storage of those weapons. We must certainly ensure that a group
of individuals witb a vast cache of weapons could flot decide at
some point to declare itself a museum.
Licensing and registration is a simple process. Registration
takes place once during the ownership of a weapon by a museum.
It is flot onerous. The goverfment bas even gone so far as to give
special consideration to, museums witb regard to safety courses
wbicb are a normal procedure f'or people handling weapons. In
the case of an antique weapons museum. museumn workers would
only have to be trained in the narrow use of, for example, antique
weapons. The government bas addressed these very serious
issues. I believe that the Senate committee was misehievous to
recommend removing feces for museums but not for anyone else.
Witb regard to safe storage of antique weapons. antique
weapons can be deadly weapons. Do you really tbink that a child
of four or five knows tbe antiquity of a weapon? Do tbey say.
"Gee. this is a 15()-year-old weapon so 1 sbould flot shoot this
one"'? 0f course they do flot. It is just as importanit to keep
antique weapons in sale storage as it is to keep any weapon in
safe storage. That again. in my view. is a hiale miscbief-making
by the other side.
I shaîl now deal witb a more serious amendment. one baving
to do with aboriginal peoples. Honourable senators, I tbink we
are aIl concerned that the cultural aspects of the aboriginal way
of life be ver careffilly considered. That is why there is witbin
the legisiation a very clear power for the minister wbich bas
neyer existed before. Clause 117(u) of the bill states that very
special and unique regulations can be made for aboriginal
people, recognizing their culture and their traditions. In addition.
there is a non-derogation clause in the legislation which states
that the treaties of the aboriginal people must flot be derogated by
this legislation.
Quite frankly. honourable senators. it was insulting to the
Minister of Justice wben he appeared before the committee and
members ot this chamber told bim that be had flot done that
whichbch clearly bas done. He bas indicated time after time
wbicb groups of aboriginal peoples he bas consulted. He
provided us witb a 10-page list of the aboriginal groups witb
whicb either be or his consultative unit bas met.
It is truc that as a result of some of those consultations not al]
of the aboriginal people agree with what the minister is going to

1Seiiatei

(î

lasau1

do. but that does flot mean that the minister bas flot consulted
them.
This proposed amendment states that. in the view of this
chamber, everything the minister bas donc up to this point.
everytbing he suggests he wilI do before the regulations are
promulgated. and everything be has said he will do with regard to
meeting with aboriginal groups in order that they can study the
regulations to determine f'or themselves whether they are
culturally sensitive and make changes to themn before they are
proclaimed. are of' no consequence to some senators opposite.
Tbey have decided that there bas been no consultation.
Honourable senators opposite surely cannot dismiss the evidence
before them quite that easily.
However. even if they were to do that. that is flot what the
aboriginal people who appeared before us wanted. Grand Chief'
Mercredi said that we have no power to make any regulations or
pass any legisiation witb respect to aboriginal people. The chiet
of the Cree said. -I have notbing against regulation and licensing.
1 want to do it myself. 1 do flot want te, let the federal goverfment
do it.- That was bis testimony; that was bis evidence.
What do you tbink will be achieved by this amendment
demanding that consultation take place when it bas already taken
place? The only person wbo can judge wbether it bas taken place
is the Minister of Justice. No one else can make that evaluation;
flot the aboriginal people.

Senator St. Germain: Can tbey flot make this judgment?
Senator Carstairs: The amendment that you moved. Senator
St. Germain, says that in the government's view. full and
considered consultation bas taken place, and wben the
goverrimient is of the opinion that full and considered
consultation bas taken place. then the government can proclaini
the regulations and, in tact, the legislation. It has notbing to do
witb our aboriginal people.
What bas angered me for so long in terms of' our treatment of'
aboriginal people is that we pretend to do tbings f'or them. We
say, "We will give you this little bit." We pat them on the back
and say. "Comne on. everyone, be happy with that." If we are flot
to do something substantive for the aboriginal people. then let us
stop miscbief-making. Do it properly or do flot do it at ail. I
believe that, for the first time in bistory, the minister bas done it
properN witb this legisiation. He bas engaged in consultation
witb our aboriginal people.
1 wisb now to address the other serious changes wbicb this
group of senators on the committee chose to introduce. These
changes faîl into wbat 1 caîl the -dangerous" category. For
example. tbey bave moved that under regulatory powers the
Minister of Justice will no longer be allowed to list by Order in
Council a prohibited weapon until the House of' Commons bas

November 20, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

sat for 30 days. If tomorrow we were to get wind of a cache of
weapons that we have never seen in Canada coming across the
border, the Minister of Justice bas the right to say that they are
prohibited weapons. He has had that right since 1968. However,
this amendment would take that power away from the minister.
For six months, or perhaps even longer because it might be
during an election or a summer recess, those weapons would be
allowed to circulate in this country. We are talking about
prohibited and restricted weapons. That is very dangerous,
honourable senators, and not something that I think we should be
contemplating in this chamber.
This regulatory-making power is an important power. It is
absolutely essential that the Minister of Justice be able to act
quickly by Order in Council. That is why such a provision was
placed in the legislation in 1968. That is why such a provision
was put into Bill C-17. Honourable senators opposite would now
strip that power from the Minister of Justice.
Honourable senators, one of the issues that has been very
difficult with this legislation is finding the means by which we
can have the correct balance between the registration and
licensing of long arms and rifles, and the criminal aspect where
people fail to register their long arms and rifles. It is a difficult
balance to find; no one questions that. That is why the House of
Commons' amendment made in June was such a positive one. It
said that for the first offence one would be charged by way of
summary conviction, if one were clearly not a criminal and did
not have criminal intent. Once one has been convicted of a
summary charge, then what is one's excuse? What reason can
one possibly then give for not knowing what is the law? By
virtue of their summary conviction, one has been told what is the
law. We would now suggest that, no matter how many long arms
or rifles one is found with, the authorities should always proceed
by way of summary conviction.
For example, let us say that a cache of weapons is found in the
possession of a motorcycle gang. Let us say that it is a bunch of
sawed-off long arms. Can they then be charged with anything
beyond a summary conviction? Not by virtue of this amendment.
It is appropriate that we find a balance. I believe this bill
achieves that balance. Universal licensing and registration will
help reduce the smuggling and illegal trafficking of firearms. It
will assist the police in criminal investigations. It will help the
police to enforce the growing number of prohibition orders by
the court and to remove firearms from situations of domestic
violence.
However, the legislation must have some teeth. Some
honourable senators opposite would yank the teeth right out of
the mouth of this particular piece of legislation.
Honourable senators, another dangerous amendment would
remove mandatory minimum sentences. There may be a lot of
bleeding hearts on the other side but, with the greatest respect,
my heart does not bleed for the criminal who is out there with a

2255

prohibited weapon. I think that criminal should be given a
mandatory sentence. By removing mandatory sentences for the
possession of prohibited and restricted weapons, senators
opposite have basically invited criminals to pay not the slightest
bit of attention to the law. That deterrence factor has been
stripped from the legislation by this particular amendment.
The area that concerns me the most is the final one that I will
address this afternoon. It is with respect to the opting-out clause
available to the provinces. As many of you in this chamber know,
as many of you have been in disagreement with me, the
Constitution of Canada has been of great interest to me since I
studied constitutional law in my undergraduate years. Over the
years I have listened to people saying that we have to give more
power to the provinces, that we have to make The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable Senator Carstairs. I regret
to interrupt you, but your time has expired.
Senator Carstairs: Honourable senators, I ask leave to finish
my remarks.
The Hon. the Speaker:
senators?

Is leave granted, honourable

Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Senator Carstairs: I thank honourable senators.
In terms of provincial opting-out. this is a serious issue. I have
never heard anywhere in this country a desire from the Canadian
people that responsibility for the Criminal Code be split between
the provinces and the federal government. If we have one sense
of identity, surely it is the power of criminal justice at the federal
government level. Yet, for a period of two years, this amendment
will give provinces the right to decide what falls under the
provisions of the Criminal Code in their province and what does
not.
Can honourable senators imagine the difficulties that there
might be during that period of time? I should like to provide a
couple of examples in that regard. What happens when someone
crosses the border between Canada and the United States? Does
the customs officer say, "Are you entering a province that has
opted out or are you entering a province that has opted in?"
Senator Berntson: Or, "Are you going hunting?", in which
case it does not matter.
Senator Carstairs: How do you make it enforceable or
workable? There is also a serious question as to whether or not it
is in direct conflict with the Charter because some of the
penalties for those who choose to opt in are different from the
penalties for those who choose to opt out. Where is equality
before the law if you can give one penalty in one province that
has opted in and another penalty in another province that has
opted out? Surely we are not serious about wanting to have two
different criminal codes in Canada.

The proposed amendment actually suggests that the province
have constitutional authority to pass criminal law. That is
contrary to the Constitution Act, 1867. It is our duty as senators
to amend legislation if we think we can improve it. If these
amendments improved the legislation, yes, they would need to be
given serious consideration. However, I do not believe they do.

I ask you. honourable senators. to think about what this
unamended bill was intended to do. The bill was to protect
children so that they do not have access to their parents' hunting
rifle and accidentally shoot themselves, or. indeed. someone else.
The bill was to protect women, women who are more often shot
and killed by a spouse or someone they know than by a stranger.
There are 48,000 prohibition orders in Canada. and this bill was
introduced so that we could enforce them. This bill is also to
protect police officers. With registration, stiffer sentences, and
the smuggling provisions of this act. they will be able to do their
job better while at the same time having better protection for
their own personal safety. This bill sends a message to all who
would own firearms in this country that the ownership of a
firearm carries with it a responsibility. and that misuse of it is to
be subject to a penalty.
This bill is supported by trauma doctors, by crime prevention
experts, by suicide prevention experts, by victims' groups, and
by a vast majority of Canadians. All of these groups have asked
for speedy passage of this bill. They have asked senators not to
delay this bill - not to put it into the mill once again where it
may or may not see the light of day. They want this legislation.
they want it now, and they want it without amendments.
Hon. Gerry St. Germain: I have a question for the
honourable senator. Did I understand the honourable senator to
say that if the government says it has consulted, that is the end of
it and it does not matter what the aboriginal peoples have to say?
If that is what she said. heaven forbid. If the country is run in that
manner, it would be anarchy at its highest level. That is basically
what the senator said. Does she wish to retract that statement?
Senator Carstairs: Honourable senators, that is what their
amendment does. Their amendment says that if, in the minister's
view, full and considered consultation has taken place, that is it.
You put that. sir. in the amendment. It was your amendment
which stated that the only person who would make that
evaluation of full and considered consultation would be the
Minister of Justice. I do not think that is good enough.
Senator St. Germain: Perhaps, the honourable senator will
present an amendment which will deal with the concerns of the
native peoples and not allow this to proceed. I also believe that
this is constitutionally flawed and that it creates an egregious
situation which we will impose on our native communities. If the
honourable senator shares that view. then she should move an
amendment which will deal with the constitutional rights of our
aboriginal people.

| Senator Carstairs

1

If there is anything wrong with this legislation, it is to be
found in the manner in which we have dealt with our aboriginal
peoples. Having travelled in the north as I have. the honourable
senator is well aware of that. I compliment her on taking that
one step further, something which many of our other colleagues
never did. I do not mean to be critical. because possibly they
never had the chance, but it would have been most educational
and enlightening had they donc so. They may have understood
the importance of this aspect of the legislation in dealing with
our aboriginal peoples, and how it fails to deal with their
situation as far as constitutional rights, treaty rights. and
agreements are concerned.
Senator Carstairs: I am presuming that the honourable
senator asked a question. Let me respond in the following way:
Yes, I did meet with aboriginal people. I went into their hunting
camps. The greatest concern they reflected to me was the need to
make the regulations culturally sensitive to their needs. That is
absolutely essential. It was for that reason I tried to introduce a
recommendation to this legislation last week which reflected
their concerns about how this bill would be implemented.
Hon. Ron Ghitter: Honourable senators, I suppose there is
always another side to an analysis of legislation. and I suppose
what Senator Carstairs has just referred to in this chamber shows
the complexity of this legislation and how difficult it is for
legislators, lawyers, and experts to understand it, let alone the
average individual on the streets of Canada.
As I rise to present my comments, I do so knowing that this
bill presents some unusual challenges to all of us. We all wish
our streets to be safer. We all wish for a society rid of' domestic
violence and suicide. We abhor the use of weaponry of any kind
which destroys families, harms our citizens, and creates fear in
the minds of Canadians. The question is how best to achieve
those ends and how best to apply our limited financial resources
to control the use of firearms in order to bring a sense of comfort
back to Canadians, particularly in urban Canada.
I wish to preface my remarks with respect to this bill against
the backdrop of tensions which exist in Canada today that. in my
view, must be kept in mind when examining Bill C-68. These are
very treacherous times for Canada. Our nationhood is at risk. Our
leaders are groping for solutions that will keep our nation strong
and maintain its survival; solutions which will recognize the
great variances that exist in a geography with the demographics
that lie within our borders; solutions that to this point have
evaded us. These solutions must be found. We all recognize the
fact that time is running out.
Leading up to the referendum on October 30, the federal
govemment, through our Prime Minister seemed to offer Quebec
the right to a distinct and special society, along with the right to
veto constitutional changes that affect their powers. These
overtures were not exactly received favourably in many regions
of Canada, and these attitudes will be not be easily overcome.
The splits run deep; so deep that. when the premiers met after the
referendum. one word seemed to reverberate across Canada, and
that was "decentralization."

November 20, 1995

November 20, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

SENATE DEBATES

I do not believe we should embark on decentralization merely
for its own sake, but there are areas where we must recognize
and give scope to regional differences. We must respect them and
use them as the cornerstone for refiguring this great nation.
Whatever the solutions may be, we must all work to find them.
There can be little doubt that if this nation is to survive, new
arrangements must be undertaken which will overcome the
tensions that have for too long been part of the Canadian psyche.
It is time for our leaders to stick up for Canada, its variances,
its great history, its wonderful vistas, its mannerisms, its
pioneering spirit, the recognition of our differences, our
compassion, our freedoms, and our willingness to recognize a
variety of aspirations, accommodate them, and work in a spirit of
goodwill and cooperation.
Honourable senators, you might well ask what this has to do
with Bill C-68, the bill which is before us, and I say,
"everything." This bill is a microcosm of what is wrong with
federal-provincial relations in our nation and what is missing in
the treatment of our first nations peoples. We have before us
today a piece of legislation that is bitterly opposed by the very
jurisdictions that are obliged to implement, enforce, and even pay
for it. In a totally unprecedented action, the Provinces of
Manitoba, Saskatchewan, Alberta, the two territories, and
separately, Ontario, came to us with, in the majority of the cases,
a totally unanimous agreement in their legislatures and told us of
their opposition to a number of elements in this bill.
In a joint submission of Alberta, Manitoba, Saskatchewan, the
Northwest Territories and the Yukon, we were told:
We are convinced that the dedication of large amounts of
scarce public resources to initiatives of questionable value,
on the scale proposed, is not the best use of the public purse.
0(1540)

Then they added:
The administrative burden the universal licensing and
registration systems will impose upon our police services
and affected provincial/territorial departments is contrary to
the public interest.
The Solicitor General and Minister of Corrections of the
province of Ontario stated before the committee that the amount
of money that he bas available to deal with serious crime, to deal
with real gun control, to create real safety on our streets, will be
wasted if applied to a universal registration system.
The leader of the Liberal party in British Columbia probably, we understand, the next premier of that province sent us a letter through a candidate in the next election to tell us
that the Senate should set aside the universal registration
proposals so that the positive aspects of the bill can proceed
"...untarnished by the inadequacies of the bill that attack
individual rights, cost millions of dollars and create only
illusions of public safety."

2257

2257

From all the correspondence I have received, and
notwithstanding the full court press that bas been put on us and
on Canadians by the Department of Justice and the minister.
nothing could be clearer than the fact that the people directly
involved, namely, the four million gun owners, are bitterly
opposed to this bill. We now have the scenario in Canada where
the citizens who are directly affected by this bill, and the
govemments that must implement, enforce and pay for it, are all
opposed to it.
How well I remember an old law professor of mine who
suggested that laws that are not followed by those who are
directly affected by them, and those who have the obligation to
enforce them, are bad laws because they will not be respected
and they will bring law into chaos.
Last week, the Minister of Justice came before the Senate
committee to charm us. I asked him, first, considering the
divisions that we have in this country, and, second, considering
that the Minister of Justice is an individual who has been
appointed by the Prime Minister to sit on a committee to advise
Canadians about the new Canada and the new approaches we
must take to keep us together, would he consider amendments
that would bridge the gap and take into serious consideration the
positions of our aboriginal peoples and the many jurisdictions
that are opposed to the bill. I suggested that these amendments
would neither ruin the registration system nor in any way take
away from it, but would help overcome the divisiveness that is
being created in this country at a time when we should be trying
to bring people together. I said, "Will you consider such
amendments, Mr. Minister?" He had not even seen the
amendments when he said: "No. It is my way or the highway",
and left that room and went on television across the country
saying, "I do not need amendments. My way is the way. I know
how to do it."
Let me say, Your Honour, that this minister does great
disservice to this country if he thinks that he will succeed with
his legislation by jamming it down people's throats. In the best
tradition of the Canadian Senate, where better can we conduct a
process to try to bridge the gap and the division this legislation is
causing to bring the country together and create understanding?
That does not take major amendments. That takes an element of
harmony, of compromise and of understanding. That is a process
that will bring us together, not move us farther apart, which is
what is happening now.
How in the world can we ever build a great nation? How can
we ever reconstruct the great vision of a Confederation created
for all our peoples when the Government of Canada is acting as
the sole and supreme body, ignoring the views of its partners in
Confederation? It will not work. With such attitudes, I hold little
hope for Canada.
Whether or not one supports the legislation, there is no
justification for such actions. I say to the government: Either
show us some leadership, some understanding of our regions,
some open mindedness and, yes, some humility, or this nation
bas no hope to find the solutions necessary to bring us together.

1 want 10 take a few moments t0 explain the seven substantive.
supposedly dangerous and miscbievous amendmenls that are
contained in tbe package before us îoday for consideration.

aboriginal people, and when our comrnittee heard from tbree
noted authorities on constitutional miatters. 1 quote Ian Binnie.
who. in conclusion. having examined the legislation, said:

1 will leave tbe value of tbe registration of arms aside. 1 will
not dca! with thai because that is not before us. I wanl 10 deal in
terms of these amendments and the impressions tbat Ibis
legislation bas let as we travelled Ibis country. Many bonourable
senators bad the occasion, as did 1, 10 travel 10 the wesl, 10
Wbiteborse and Kamloops, and talk 10 people 10 gel tbeir views.
Il was quite an experience. I invite al] senators 10 do so, not only
from a learning point of view but because of the image il creates
for a Senate that is willing 10 listen and flot hide in Ottawa in Ibis
chamber.

Having regard to the foregoing. il is our view that some
of the provisions of Bill C-68 in their present f'orrn would
infringe the îreaty and aboriginal rigbts of Yukon Indians.
and that the federal govemment would not, at prescrnt, be
able to justify the infringement. If this conclusion is corrîect.
the resuit would be that the offending provisions would be
inoperative in relation 10 Yukon aboriginal peoples and 10
the firearms and ammunition used in their exercise of
constitutionally-recognized aboriginal rigbts.

Wbaî arn I t îbink of legislation that 1 believe 10 be
unconstitutional witb respect 10 our Firsi Nations peoples and
tbat contravenes express provisions in treaties? Wbat am I 10
tbink of legislation that creates criminals out of law-abiding
citizens by Orders in Council tbat are issued bebind closed doors.
that do not bave 10 be placed before Parliament l'or
ohink of legislation that contiscales
consideralion? Wbaî am I10
tbe property of law-abiding citizens witbout compensation'?

Mr. Binnie said in bis presenlation that the federal govemment
bas a requirement by agreement to consuit with the aboriginal
peoples. "Consultation" is not just some word you take out of the
sky. "Consult" or "Consultation" is detined in the agreement 10
me an:

What am I10 îbink of legislation tbat allows tbe police or
appointed inspeclors to enter upon private property witbout a
warrant and confiscate properîy? Wbaî am I 10 think of
legisiation tbal criminalizes Canadians for the failure 10 apply for
a mere licence and tben imposes penalties tbal conlain mandatory
nminimum sentences tbat are more severe tban tbe imprisonment
penalties for rape. nianslaugbter, and ail tbe serious. vicious
crimes tbat. sadly. we bave in our society?

(b) a reasonable period of' time in wbicb the party to be
consulted may prepare ils views on the malter, and an
opportunity to present sucb views t0 the party obliged 10
consuit; and

Wbaî arn 1 tb ink of legislation tbat forces antique owners Io
remove Ibeir collections from Canada and, in the process. 10
remove some of our bisîory witb tbem. and that taxes our
museums for $4 million. wbicb îbey do not bave, for
unwarranted procedures that have no reasonable application 10
tbis legislation? What am I10tb ink of legislation tbat forces
tourîsmi in many important areas in many of our regions t0 die
because of regulalions ibat are not applicable'?
Finally. what arnm 10 îohink of legislation that forces our
provinces 10 engage bitîerly in a dangeroos confrontation witb
tbe Govemment of Canada?
Would you not agree ibat such legislation sbould aI least be
examined? Would you not agree Ihal the Senale. acting in our
tradition. must endeavour 10 bridge the gap of tbe perception tbat
exisîs lbrougbout many regions of' Ibis country towards Ibis
legislation? Surely we bave tbat obligation.
Let me deal wiîb a couple of tbe arnendments. My lime is
sbort but Ihere are a few. and tbere must be a response 10 tbe
commenîs Senator Carstairs made so that tbere can be some
understanding of Ibis legislation.
Let us îalk about our aboriginals. Let us talk about tbeir
agreements that are being forgotten. Let us flot lust glibly say that
we are being mischievous when we are concerned with our

[ Senalor (hittei 1

(a) to the party t0 be consulted, notice of a matter t0 be
decided in sufficient form and detail to allow that party to
prepare ils views on the matter:

(c) fui! and fair consideration by the party obliged to consuit
of any views presented.
I asked the minister. "Did you do these thingsx"' He did not
answer the question and moved on 10 something eIsc. because be
did flot do any of' tbese things.
We tben have Senator Carstairs and the minister coming
before us and saying that he consulted. 0f course, he did. He sent
out 600 letters. That is -consulîing." 1 travelled 10 a few
locations. Our little commitîee that travelled 10 Alberta talked to
some of the Treaîy 7 people. We asked them, "Were you ever
consulted?- They neyer even received a letter, let alone
consultation. Tbey have no understanding of wbal is occurring.
They came 10 us grievously speaking about the impairment of
their lrealy rights and grievously speaking about their hunling
privileges and how the hi!! will affect their rigbîs to basic
survival. They say that the tederal government does not give a
damn - their language was stronger - about us. The more 1
look aI this legislation, the more I think thal that is truc.

Are we hein- asked in this Senate chamber 10 accept
legislation which we know is not constitutional, wbich wiII force
the aboriginal people 10 go 10 court. as lbey have told us they
will. and whicb will leave a cloud banging over their beads for
seven t0 ten years wbile ibis goes ail the way to the Supreme
Court of Canada. not 10 mention the costs tbey will be torced bo
incur? That is wbat will happen because there bas heen no
consultaiion.

November 20, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

Not only Mr. Binnie says that that is so; Ms Turpel also says
that that is so. Another authority gave a lengthy opinion
expressing the same view. The government has not done the
consultation and it is not dealing with the aboriginal peoples in
accordance with its responsibilities. That is totally inappropriate.
I shall talk about delayed implementation for a moment. This
is a very important amendment. I am not sure whether my friend
Senator Carstairs put this into the dangerous or the mischievous
category. This amendment was recommended to us by various
justice ministers in all seriousness after spending months
examining the issues. I wonder how they would view their
relations with Ottawa if I were to tell them that the federal
government has said that their recommendations were
mischievous or dangerous.
More important, what is the real purport of this amendment?
There is great scepticism about this legislation in the provinces.
There is a lack of understanding about the costs that will be
incurred. We have heard estimates ranging from $85 million to
$1 billion. No one seems to have an accurate figure.
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senator, I hesitate to
interrupt, but Senator Ghitter's time has expired.
Is leave granted to allow Honourable Senator Ghitter to
continue?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Senator Ghitter: Thank you, Your Honour, and fellow
senators.
Delayed implementation will allow the provinces time to
better understand legislation to which they are bitterly opposed.
They will not be allowed to opt out of the legislation. The
amendment will ensure that they accept the legislation after eight
years. The delay will provide the provinces with an opportunity
to finalize their financial arrangements with the federal
government.
I am sure honourable senators are aware that the provincial
governments are still waiting for money from the federal
government under Bill C-17. Even before those arrangements
have been finalized, we are moving on to something else. We
must take into account that such long-term changes as these
require long-term solutions.
More important, it will give those provinces which are
sceptical an opportunity to see this working. If the Province of
Quebec wishes to proceed with the legislation immediately, it
may do so, and other provinces will be able to examine the
results to determine whether it does work. If it works, the other
provinces will also proceed, as they should. If it does not work,
we can find a better way to reduce crime in our society than a
registration system the likes of which has not worked anywhere
in the world where it has been tried.

2259

Let it be understand that this is not, as Senator Carstairs
alleges, an attempt to create criminal law in one province and not
in another. It must be understood that this amendment goes hand
in hand with the decriminalization amendment. If it is
decriminalized, it will not even be in the Criminal Code; rather, it
will be in the Firearms Act.
I have a list of eight examples of delayed implementation in
Canada. This has been done before with respect to the Criminal
Code, the Young Offenders Act and the Referendum Act. This is
not unprecedented. It has been done, and it has worked. It has
worked because it recognizes that ours is a large country. It
recognizes that laws for urban Toronto must be very different
from those for Whitehorse. It recognizes that Alberta is different
from urban Toronto. It recognizes that sometimes you must phase
in measures such as this in order that people can become aware
and knowledgeable of them and slowly accept them. We must
not impose such measures on our native friends. We must give
them time to accept them, to work out the regulations, to
implement the legislation, and to trust the government.
This is "trust me" legislation. The Minister of Justice has said
to Canadians, "Trust me in the regulations. Trust me to do it
behind closed doors by Order in Council. Trust me to amend the
Criminal Code by Orders in Council, which need never be laid
before Parliament, to create a new class of criminal. Trust me,
Canada. Trust me, aboriginal people. I will give you a wonderful
set of regulations which you will love. Please trust me."
We have learned the hard way that trust does not exist today.
We have learned the hard way, through the grief which our past
Prime Minister is being put through. We should trust these
people? We do not have to trust these people. This must be put in
legislation. We do not govem Canada by regulation. We govern
Canada by statute and legislation.
In conclusion, these amendments are not recommended
facetiously. These amendments are not dangerous. These
amendments are not mischievous. These amendments are
necessary approaches which must be taken to create wholeness
and harmony in our country. We must recognize that when the
justice ministers come to us and tell us of their conceris, they do
not do it to be mischievous or dangerous; they do it out of a deep
concern that the laws of Canada will fall into disrepute, and that
the laws of Canada will appear to many Canadians to be
inappropriate to the needs of their regions. The least that the
Senate can do is try to bridge that gap in order to bring
Canadians together, rather than creating another wedge which
divides us at a time when we cannot afford to be divided more
than we are.
Senator Carstairs: Honourable senators, may I ask Senator
Ghitter a couple of questions?
He made a statement to the effect that weapons had been
confiscated without compensation. Can he give the Senate any
specific examples of a weapon being prohibited without either
the paying of compensation or the grandfathering of that
weapon?

Senator Ghitter: Honourable senators. under this legislation,
by Order in Council the minister can. if he wishes. prohibit
certain weapons. If this legislation comes into force, he can
confiscate prohibited weapons without compensation.
Compensation bas been paid for weapons that are presently
classed prohibited. but in the future, under grandfathered
legislation. there is no obligation to give compensation.
I believe Senator Stratton knows of other examples which he
may wish to add.
Hon. Terry Stratton: Although I cannot respond to Senator
Carstairs' question, I should like to ask a question of Senator
Ghitter.
What happens when an individual legally purchases a long
arm which subsequently becomes restricted and thereafter
becomes prohibited? That situation has occurred to two
individuals who currently reside in Manitoba. They purchased
guns legally which subsequently became restricted weapons.
They dutifully registered their weapons. Two months later, the
RCMP informed them that the weapons were now prohibited,
and they were confiscated without compensation. This occurred
on two occasions.
Should he wish, I would be glad to provide the pertinent
information on that to Senator Ghitter.

Senator Ghitter: I would appreciate that.
The other area I wish to discuss relates to prohibited firearms
being inherited by family members. In the event of the death of
an owner of a prohibited firearm, that weapon may be passed on
down through his or her family. However, when that process
ends, that gun is prohibited and must be turned over to the
govemment. Again, no compensation is paid.
Honourable senators, it is a fact that, under this proposed
legislation, the government will have the power to confiscate
property without compensation. That is hardly the Canadian
way. honourable senators.
Senator Carstairs: If Senator Ghitter believes that the
provisions for our aboriginal people are so unconstitutional, why
did he not introduce an amendment to exempt our aboriginal
people? What would be the reaction to that exemption from
Manitoba, Saskatchewan, Alberta, the Northwest Territories and
the Yukon?
Senator Ghitter: Honourable senators. I do not believe that
the aboriginal peoples, our First Nations, or the rest of the
population of Canada want to build Canada on the basis of
exemptions. Understand. however, that we are not talking about
exemptions for our aboriginal peoples as much as we are talking
about their treaty rights. We are talking about agreements and
rights under which they are protected by the Constitution. It is
not a matter of exemption; it is a matter of stating that these

people have entitlements by our very Constitution and the
agreements which they have entered into with the Government of
Canada. I am not coming forward with amendments to exempt
them. I do not have to. They are protected by agreements and by
section 35 of the Constitution.
Honourable senators. I do not think the aboriginal people of
Canada want to be excluded from the mainstream of Canadian
life - I think they are begging to become part of it. I do not
think that is where the answer lies: the answer lies in that if we
are to have this legislation. then the minister has the ability to
perfect it. If the minister were operating in a bona fide and
honourable way, then all he need do is follow the obligations as
set out in the legal precedents and agreements that I have referred
to, and truly consult. Do not insult the aboriginal people of this
country by sending out a bunch of letters, flying in to the
communities and staying for 10 minutes, and saying "I have
consulted". Wherever we went and talked to these people. we
were told that this is what happened.
Consultation is not saying "hello" and running off;
consultation is sitting around a table for however many months,
days and hours you have to in order to create agreements. The
minister did not do that. There was no consultation.
Hon. Paul Lucier: Honourable senators, I also have a
question for Senator Ghitter.
The opting out formula took me by surprise. It would delay the
registration of shotguns and rifles.
I read the transcripts of the committee hearings. Never did I
hear any justice minister from the three western provinces or the
two territories suggest that they would find acceptable a delay in
the registration. I heard them say they did not want registration. I
did not hear them say they would accept a delay.
Did I misunderstand, or is there something here that was not
brought out before by the ministers?
Senator Ghitter: Honourable senators, I have before me the
abbreviated form of the presentation given by the justice
ministers of Alberta, Manitoba, the North West Territories and
the Yukon. They stated:
However, if a jurisdiction does not want to implement this
program, it should be able to refuse to do so. We see no
justification for the inflexible approach that the federal
govemment has adopted.
Basically, they wanted the power to opt out entirely.
I then contacted Minister Evans from Alberta, the
spokesperson for this group. I told him that I did not think that
was acceptable. and that I did not believe any of my colleagues
in the Senate believed that any province should opt out.
However, I also said that there may be some support to delay
implementation if he wanted to consider it.

November 20, 1995

November 20. 1995

SENATE DEBATES

SENATE DEBATES

Minister Evans then sent me a legal brief that spoke in terms
of how delayed implementation has been utilized in Canada. It
assisted us in drafting the amendment in the sense that it takes
into account the type of amendment the provinces would find
acceptable. As a result, the amendment before you has been
vetted through these jurisdictions and was, basically, prepared by
these jurisdictions. I felt that if they were going to delay
implementation, they should do so by an act of their legislatures.
In this way, the province of Alberta, for example, will have the
ability to hear the debate in an open forum. They cannot merely
proceed by Order in Council, as seems to be the case in the
legislation before us. The provinces accepted that and felt it was
useful.
We vetted this through Mr. Phillips in the Yukon. He is fully
aware of it. We discussed this with him no later than Sunday.
These jurisdictions will accept this measure and they feel that it
is a step forward.
I thank the honourable senator for asking this question because
it has given me an opportunity to respond to his concerns. I feel
that the provinces would be much more comfortable if this
amendment were incorporated into the proposed legislation.
What are we doing? We are extending the time limit by two
years on a program that does not become effective for eight years
in any event. It would be an appropriate way to bring these
jurisdictions within our ambit, and the Senate would be doing
good work if it were to pass this amendment.
Hon. Jerahmiel S. Grafstein: Did I hear the honourable
senator correctly when he suggested that he did not trust the
Minister of Justice to keep his undertaking to the Senate with
respect to subsequent regulation?
Senator Ghitter: Honourable senators, the minister was
talking about the non-derogation clause in the bill and
endeavouring to show respect for their point of view regarding
the creation of the regulations. The aboriginal peoples told our
committee that they do not trust regulations. As a result, they
want to see these measures in the legislation.
Honourable senators, I am not saying that I do not trust the
minister. Frankly, I do not like the lack of humility we saw last
week in our committee. That is personal but, in another sense, I
do not have a distrust of the minister. I can tell you, however, that
many people in Canada do.
Senator Grafstein: What is the basis upon which the
honourable senator raises this issue? Could he point out to the
Senate where the Minister of Justice has breached an undertaking
to the Senate respecting legislation or regulation? Is there any
single instance where this Minister of Justice has breached his
undertaking to the Senate or to the people of Canada?
Senator Ghitter: Honourable senators, in my view, the
minister breached his undertaking when he said that he had
consulted with aboriginal communities. I say he did not. He has

2261

2261

an obligation to do so, not only under the Charter but under the
very agreements that Canada has entered into. I say he has
breached that obligation.
Some Hon. Senators: Hear, hear!
Senator Grafstein: I do not mean to belabour this issue, but
that is not exactly what I heard the honourable senator say in the
course of his comments.
Senator Berntson: But you agree.
Senator Grafstein: No, I do not agree with the senator's
interpretation or with the allegation or interpretation that he
cannot trust the undertaking given to the Senate in committee by
the Minister of Justice. I cannot accept that. That is unacceptable.
Hon. Mira Spivak: Honourable senators, Senator Ghitter
mentioned that under this legislation museums will be taxed.
However, it was pointed out in committee last Thursday that
there are no taxes or fees for museums in this legislation. Would
the honourable senator be kind enough to direct me to a clause in
the proposed legislation where it states that fees will be charged
to museums?

Senator Ghitter: I would be happy to find that clause for the
honourable senator. Perhaps my friend has not seen the review
that was given?
Senator Spivak: I happen to have been there.
Senator Ghitter: We have before us the response of the
minister to the amendments. I received it only this morning. In
the document prepared by the Department of Justice, it states that
they can charge fees. Fees are determined by regulation. It is a
matter of whether they will or will not do so.
I would rather see museums exempted than depend on the
govemment t determine whether museums should pay fees.
Senator Spivak: That is exactly my point. There is a series of
regulations, under those regulations, fees can be charged.
However, I think that there are no fees to museums in this
legislation. As a lawyer, I am sure the honourable senator can tell
me if I am correct or incorrect in my assessment of the situation.
Senator Ghitter: A former lawyer.
0 (1610)

Many members will remember when representatives of
museums appeared before the Standing Senate Committee on
Legal and Constitutional Affairs. They presented a brief that
stated that in their estimation this legislation would
mean $4 million in fees would be paid by them. We accepted
that number which came from their association. I do not recall
how they determined that figure, but it certainly sticks in my
mind.

Senator Spivak: Senator Ghitter, what is there in this
legislation that determines that fees will be charged to museums?
You have not answered my question.
Senator Ghitter: The power is there for the government to do
it. A document prepared by the Justice Department states that the
fees for museums, if any, have not yet been determined; and,
once set, will be submitted in regulation form to Parliament for
full review. That does not tell me that there will not be any.
Hon. Herbert O. Sparrow: Honourable senators. I. too. have
a question for Senator Ghitter. When they appeared before the
committee the attorneys general stated their opposition to the
licensing of firearms. They were most adamant about that in their
presentation to the committee.
The honourable senator stated today that the attorneys general
were prepared to accept an amendment that would extend the
period of time for applying the provisions of the bill. Is there any
indication that they have backed off from their stand?
Senator Ghitter: Honourable senators, no. I think they are
still very opposed to the registration provisions. They would
accept this amendment as the fourth best solution, which I think
expresses their point of view, Senator Sparrow.

the Minister of Justice wants Canadians to trust him on this
particular issue.
At the same time, however, the same Minister of Justice bas
had one of his departmental officials write a letter concerning an
international police investigation, yet he is not prepared to
answer for the actions of that person.
In our hearings we heard representatives of various aboriginal
groups state that their names were listed among the groups
consulted by the Minister of Justice. They told us emphatically
that they had never been consulted. Some of them said that they
had received one of these 600 or so letters, but had never been
contacted personally. Yet the minister listed their names as
people with whom he had consulted.
In the hearings we conducted, is that not what we heard from
the numerous aboriginal groups who came before us?
Senator Ghitter: Honourable senators, I am sad to say that
that is the case. We received a list of people who had been
consulted. The native people who were named on the list said
that they had never had such meetings in which they talked to the
minister.
On motion of Senator Roux, debate adjourned.

Hon. Leonard J. Gustafson: Honourable senators, I should
like to ask a question of the Honourable Senator Ghitter. It
concerns the implementation of these regulations.
In the hearings which I attended in Manitoba, Saskatchewan
and Whitehorse. people said. over and over again, that they
would not obey this legislation if it passes. I heard that from the
chiefs of three different Indian bands. I heard it from farners,
hunters, sportsmen and trappers. They all said, "I will defy the
law. I have been a good citizen, but I cannot obey this law." Does
the honourable senator think that the government can implement
this bill in the way it now stands?
Senator Ghitter: There are offences lor which a jail sentence
is justified. In other instances. we must look at the offence and
consider how serious it is. What we must understand is that
99.75 per cent of gun owners in this country respect guns, and
they pose no problem. They, for whatever reason, may look upon
this registration system with its criminality and say, "What have
I done wrong? Why me?" Others may say, "You just have to fill
out a little card and send in $10". 1 cannot answer what is deep in
their psyches, but I know how deeply people feel about this
legislation.
I do not think it is necessary to impose criminal penalties upon
these individuals, Senator Gustafson. I do not for a moment want
to suggest that people should break the laws of Canada, nor
would any honourable senator suggest that people should do so.
Senator St. Germain: Honourable senators, my question to
Senator Ghitter concems the question of trust, which I think is
key to this whole area. The honourable senator pointed out that

ELECTORAL BOUNDARIES
READJUSTMENT BILL, 1995
MOTION TO INSTRUCT LEGAL AND CONSTITUTIONAL AFFAIRS
COMMITrEE TO TABLE FINAL REPORT-ORDER STANDS

On the Order:
Resuning the debate on the motion of the Honourable
Senator Fairbairn, P.C.. seconded by the Honourable Senator
Stewart.
That it be an instruction of this House to the Standing
Senate Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs that
no later than Wednesday, November 22, 1995, it present its
final report to the Senate on the Message from the House of
Commons dated June 20, 1995, and on the motion of the
Honourable Senator Graham dated June 28, 1995, regarding
Bill C-69, An Act to provide for the establishment of
electoral boundaries commissions and the readjustment of
electoral boundaries.
Hon. Sharon Carstairs: Honourable senators, this motion
stands in my name. I ask that it remain in my name. However, I
would prefer not to give another speech today. I will speak to this
matter tomorrow. If any other senator wishes to speak, I would
welcome that.
Order stands.
The Senate adjourned until tomorrow at 2 p.m.

2263

THE SENATE
Tuesday, November 21, 1995
The Senate met at 2:00 p.m., the Speaker in the Chair.
Prayers.
THE LATE HONOURABLE
MR. JUSTICE EMMETT M. HALL
TRIBUTES

Hon. David Tkachuk: Honourable senators, on Wednesday,
November 15, 1995. the people of Canada laid to rest Emmett
Hall, former Chief Justice of Saskatchewan and Justice of the
Supreme Court of Canada, who passed away peacefully at the
age of 97 on Sunday, November 12, in Saskatoon.

firearms. I stated at that time that I would provide the Senate
with information regarding individuals who had had firearms
confiscated without compensation.
The information is as follows: Tom Ames lost $1,000;
Cal Nordham lost $300; Wes Allan lost $25,000 with regard to a
firearms collection; Jess Whitcher, a dealer, went bankrupt;
Wolverine Supplies lost $2,200; Bruce Tage lost $4,000;
Tom Brown lost $900; John Hipwell lost $2,200; Les Dalhun lost
$25,000 with regard to a collection; and Larry Thiessen lost an
unknown amount.

Here was a man for the ages. Born in Saint-Colomban, Quebec
in 1898, Emmett Hall distinguished himself as a lawyer. He was
called to the bar in Saskatchewan in 1922, served as Chief Justice
of Saskatchewan from 1961, and as a Justice of the Supreme
Court of Canada from 1962 to 1973.
In 1961, he was appointed by then Prime Minister Diefenbaker
to head up the Royal Commission on Health Services in Canada,
which, because of its impact on Canadian social policy, became
known as the Hall Commission. This blueprint became the basis
for health care in Canada.
Emmett Hall received honourary degrees from nine
universities across this country. He served as Chairman on the
Committee on Aims and Objectives for Education in Ontario. He
arbitrated labour disputes on behalf of the federal government
between terminal operators and grain handlers on the West Coast.
He was a school trustee and a member of the board of St. Paul's
Hospital in Saskatoon.
He is remembered as a man who constantly worked, who
enjoyed controversy and who served the country and our
province with distinction, compassion and the kind of values that
we in Canada should ail emulate.
He is survived by his daughter, Marion Wedge, his son,
Dr. John Hall, 12 grandchildren and eight great grandchildren. To
ail of them, on behalf of ail of you, I extend sympathy and
condolences.

GREY CUP
CONGRATULATIONS TO ORGANIZERS

Hon. Leonard J. Gustafson: Honourable senators, I should
like to take this opportunity to congratulate the Province of
Saskatchewan and the city of Regina on hosting an outstanding
Grey Cup game.
Hon. Senators: Hear, hear!
Senator Gustafson: Some have said that it was the best Grey
Cup weekend ever. The Province of Saskatchewan and the small
city of Regina worked together to produce a tremendous display
in that city. Some, however, did express concerns about the
weather. Honourable senators, the Canadian Football League is
not dead -

not at ail.

I would congratulate the organizers, the coordinators and the
volunteers, ail of whom did their jobs so well in hosting
55,000 people in Regina. To have met that challenge would have
been an accomplishment at any time.
Senator Berntson: That amounts to about one-third of the
city's population.

FIREARMS LEGISLATION

Senator Gustafson: To everyone involved in coordinating the
"huddle-up" in Saskatchewan, I can tell them that it was a pretty
good day. They showed Canada and the U.S. our great
Saskatchewan hospitality. This Grey Cup will go down in history
as one of the best ever.

Hon. Terry Stratton: Honourable senators, yesterday I asked
Senator Ghitter a question concerning the confiscation of

Congratulations to Calgary for a great game; and to Baltimore
for a great win.

SENATORS' STATEMENTS

[Translation]
VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN
Hon. Rose-Marie Losier-Cool: Honourable senators. 1 arn
pleased to speak on an issue about which 1 arn very much
concemed.
This year. in October. women's history was celebrated
throughout Canada. Won1en's History Month bas been celebrated
since 1992 to recognize the past and present contributions of
Canadian women.
Keeping in mind the obstacles that these women have
overcome in the past. and continue to overcome today, I invite
you to promote public awareness during the month of November.
which is Violence AgYainst Women Month. As well. on
December 6, a day to reflect and promote action to counter
violence against women. 1 urge you to spread the word and to
loin aIl those who denounce violence in our communities.
particularly violence against women.
[En glisli]
Honourable senators. aIl Canadians are entitled to a reasonable
level of safety. By acknowledging that it is primarily women who
use public transportation. walk. or use bicycles to get around.
municipal authorities should encourage public transportation
officiaIs to develop and implement an individual safcty policy
that meets women's nceds.
Ensuring the safety of womcen in public places is an important
step in the process of making our society saler for women. This
must. however. be combined with a determination to respond to
the most widespread type of violence against women -family
violence.
As mentioned in the report by the city of' Winnipeg entitled.
"A Safer Winnipeg for Womien and Children,- it is in their own
homes that women and children are most in danger; that is,
among people they know.
[Translation]
According ta Statistics Canada, 25 per cent of aIl women have
been victims of' violent acts on the part of their current partner or
of a former panner. A weapon was used by 44 per cent of violent
spouses.
Honourahle senators. 1 invite you to denounce aIl forms of
violence against women. As we near the end of' November. we
must be aware of the scope of that curse and realize that violence
against women is not an individual problem, but a collective one.
Canada continues to take the lead by making the issue of
violence against women a priority.

Bill C-68, which we are trying to include in Canadian
legisiation. seeks to put an end to the use of firearms l'or criminal
purposes by establishing new offences and penalties to prohibit
certain types of fircarms and putting into place a new registration
sy ste m.
Thus. Canada continues to ensure that future generations of
wornen will feel sater at home, in the workplace and in their
leisure activities.
[En glish]

ROUTINE PROCEEDINGS
ADJOURNMENT
Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourable senators. with leave of the Senate.
and notwithstanding rule 58(l)(h), 1 move:
That when the Senate adjourns today. it do stand
adjourned until Wednesday. November 22, 1995. at one
thirty o'clock in the afternoon.
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators. is leave
granted?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Motion agreed to.
PRIVATE BILL.
EVANGELICAL MISSIONARY CHURCH (CANADA WEST
DISTRICfr)-PRESENTATION 0F PETITION

Hon. Leonard J. Gustafson: Honourable senators. 1 have the
honour ta present a petition from the Missionary Church and the
Evangelical Missionary Church. Canada West District of the city
of Calgary in the Province of Alberta praying for the passage of
an act to amalgamate the Alberta corporation known as the
Missionary Church with the Canada corporation known as the
Evangelical Missionary Church, Canada West District.

CANADIAN NATO PARLIAMENTARY ASSOCIATION
NORTH ATLANTIC ASSEMBLY-REPORT 0F CANADJAN DELEGATION
TO ANNUAL SESSION TABLED

Hon. Bill Rompkey: Honourable senators. 1 have the honour
ta table the tenth report of the Canadian Delegation of the
Canadian NATO Parliamentary Association on the Annual
Session of' NATO Parliamentarians held in Turin, Italy from
October 5 ta 9. 1995.

November 21, 1995

November 21, 1995

2265

SENATE DEBATES

2265

SENATE DEBATES

CANADA-EUROPE PARLIAMENTARY ASSOCIATION
COUNCIL OF EUROPE COMMITTEE ON ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
AND DEVELOPMENT, PARIS AND STRASBOURG, FRANCEREPORT OF CANADIAN DELEGATION TABLED

Hon. William M. Kelly: Honourable senators, I have the
honour to table a report of the Canadian Delegation to the
Committee on Economic Affairs and Development of the
Council of Europe on the activities of the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development and the European Bank
for Reconstruction Development held in Paris and Strasbourg,
France from June 26 to 28, 1995.

there are more important things happening. If a vote is called, we
can always return to ensure that committee members' votes are
recorded.
The Hon. the Speaker: Is leave granted, honourable senators?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Motion agreed to.
[Translation]

COUNCIL OF EUROPE PARLIAMENTARY ASSEMBLY, STRASBOURG,
FRANCE-REPORT OF CANADIAN DELEGATION TABLED

QUESTION PERIOD

Hon. William M. Kelly: Honourable senators, I have the
honour to table the report of the Canadian Delegation to the
Enlarged Debate of the Council of Europe Parliamentary
Assembly on the activities of the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development, held in Strasbourg, France on
September 27 and 28, 1995.

NATIONAL FINANCE

SOCIAL AFFAIRS, SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
COMMITEE AUTHORIZED TO MEET
DURING SITING OF THE SENATE

Hon. M. Lorne Bonnell: Honourable senators, with leave of
the Senate and notwithstanding rule 58(1)(a), I move:
That the Standing Senate Committee on Social Affairs,
Science and Technology have power to sit at three o'clock
in the afternoon, today, November 21, 1995, even though
the Senate may then be sitting, and that rule 95(4) be
suspended in relation thereto.
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, is leave
granted?
Senator Doody: Explain.
Senator Bonnell: I wish to thank honourable senators for
giving me an opportunity to explain the reason for this motion.
0 (1420)

REPORT OF AUDITOR GENERAL-LONG-TERM MANAGEMENT OF
DEBT AND DEFICIT-GOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. Roch Bolduc: Honourable senators, my question is for
the Leader of the Govemment in the Senate and deals with the
national debt. In last year's report, the Auditor General called for
better information about the debt. He said the same thing again in
an interim report last October. In this morning's report, the
Auditor General says this:
As we pointed out in our October report, we need better
information on how short-term deficit forecasts fit into a
long-tern debt stabilization plan.
He goes on to say:

Furthermore, we should understand the size and
repercussions of the federal and provincial govemments'
debts.
Does the government intend to give us this information
regarding long-term debt management?
[English]

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, I shall make inquiries on that question.
[Translation]

For some reason, Air Canada was flying late this morning.
Although our witnesses were scheduled to appear at nine o'clock
this morning, we had to wait until eleven o'clock before they
were able to attend. We heard them in a brief way, but the
committee did not feel it should make any decisions in the two or
three minutes remaining.

Senator Bolduc: Does the govemment also intend to sit down
with provincial representatives, instead of offloading its deficit
onto the provinces? Does the government intend to establish a
long-term spending plan, so that the short-term debt can fit into a
broader framework for the long-term management of Canada's
national debt?

Honourable senators, we are asking permission to sit this
afternoon to discuss Bill C-64, the Employment Equity Bill, and
the testimony of our witnesses from this morning, and to make a
decision as to our report. We do not want to sit tomorrow because

[English]

Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators, I will also take that
question to my colleagues.

TRANSPORT
FEDERAL-PROVINCIAL STRATEGIC HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT
PROGRAM-REPORT OF AUDITOR GENERAL
ON DIVERSION OF FUNDS-GOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. Gerald J. Comeau: Honourable senators, my question
for the Leader of the Govemment in the Senate is in regards to
the report of the Auditor General that was released this morning.
In response to concerns raised by our leader, the Honourable Jean
Charest, the Auditor General confirmed that there was an
apparent abuse of power on the part of those ministers involved
in the diversion of $26 million from Highway 104 to the
Fleur-de-lis Trail in Nova Scotia. I quote from his report:
... a review would have required that a thorough analysis of
the priority, cost, benefits and other merits of the proposed
project be presented to the Management Committee before
amendments to the agreement were implemented. In this
case, however, such a review was pre-empted by ministers
who presented the matter as a "fait accompli" to officiais
who, in the circumstances, could only implement the
decision.
With this revelation, what procedures have been put in place to
ensure that ministers in the future not be able to manipulate the
spending of taxpayers' money for their own political gain?

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, I will not associate my remarks with my
colleague's final comment. Ministers of the Crown are constantly
exhorted to take the utmost care with expenditures involving
taxpayers' money.
Senator Berntson: Clean up your act!
Senator Fairbairn: The specific question vis-à-vis that case
has received a full airing in this chamber. I will be pleased to
look into my friend's question and obtain an answer for him.
FEDERAL-PROVINCIAL STRATEGIC HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT
PROGRAM-REPORT OF AUDITOR GENERAL
ON DIVERSION OF FUNDS-REQUEST FOR TABLING
OF PERTINENT DOCUMENTS

Hon. J. Michael Forrestall: Honourable senators, I wish to
tidy up one or two matters that the Auditor General dealt with in
his report.
I tum first to the Fleur-de-lis project. The Auditor General has
found, in fact, that it was a federal-provincial initiative,
contradicting what the Minister of Transport and the Minister of
Public Works had to say. and the Prime Minister himself said on
May 24 at a press conference. It would appear that the
contradiction has no lasting impact. The direction had been to
restore the funding to the program.
We must carry this one step further. It places into some degree
of jeopardy the integrity of the public service, which is involved
on a day-to-day basis with the management of this type of affair.

So that we might lay this matter to rest, could the minister
arrange to have tabled the documents relating specifically to this
diversion of funds, the $26 million that went from the
Highway 104 program to the Fleur-de-lis Trail?

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, I will communicate Senator Forrestall's
question to my colleagues to sec whether or not it is possible to
fulfil his request.
Concerning the honourable senator's earlier remarks, I must
confess that I have not yet been able to examine closely the
Auditor General's report. I shal do so as the week progresses.

JUSTICE
SALE OF AIRBUS AIRCRAFT TO AIR CANADA-ALLEGED
CONSPIRACY TO DEFRAUD FEDERAL GOVERNMENT- REQUEST
FOR APOLOGY TO GOVERNMENT OF SWITZERLAND

Hon. Marjory LeBreton: Honourable senators, my question
is for the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Now that we
have the full text of the request from the Government of Canada
to the Government of Switzerland regarding former Prime
Minister Mulroney, whereby information communicated to the
Swiss government was presented in a totally misleading fashion,
will the Government of Canada, in an effort to restore Canada's
good name and reputation, apologize to the Government of
Switzerland?
Senator Oison: That does not even deserve a reply!
Senator Berntson: Send them a pack of lies!

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, I can only respond in line with what I said
yesterday. The letter which was transmitted by the Department of
Justice to the Swiss authorities was sent on behalf of the RCMP
in the process of its investigation. Other events have occurred
around this issue. At the moment, that is all I can say.
Senator LeBreton: Honourable senators, is the government
condoning the notion that it is proper for one government to
misrepresent itself to another?
Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators, I will simply say to
my honourable friend that the ministers of the Government of
Canada -

Senator Berntson: Who did not know anything about this!
Senator Fairbairn: - have not been involved in any way in
this matter. They have not been involved in any way in the
communication which was transmitted in what is the normal
course of such inquiries. Therefore, I cannot respond to the
comment made about that letter.

November 21, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

SALE OF AIRBUS AIRCRAFT TO AIR CANADA-ALLEGED
CONSPIRACY TO DEFRAUD FEDERAL GOVERNMENTKNOWLEDGE OF MINISTER-GOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. Gerry St. Germain: Honourable senators, my question
to the Leader of the Government in the Senate relates to a
statement made by the Minister of Justice and his comment
yesterday, that he knew nothing about this situation.
0 (1430)

Yet, in broadcasts today, he said that, on November 4,
Mr. Tassé approached him and wanted to have certain
discussions with regard to this particular incident. Yesterday, one
of the senators in this bouse raised the issue of the trust of the
Minister of Justice. This is inconsistent in that, if he did not know
anything, how could he make that statement yesterday and then
turn around and say on November 4 that he had been approached
on the same subject?
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, the Minister of Justice said quite
categorically that he was unaware of the investigation and
unaware of the letter being sent.
Senator Doody: Where does he live?
Senator Fairbairn: He was clear that he received a phone call
from a lawyer on behalf of his client, asking if he could meet
with him to discuss the issue. This is after the fact of the letter,
November 4. The Minister of Justice felt that it was inappropriate
for him to do so under the circumstances. It was for that reason
he did not respond positively to that request.
Senator Berntson: What were the circumstances?
Senator St. Germain: Honourable senators, the question
concerns what he did. He did know about it. He indicated
reluctantly on television today that he had spoken to Mr. Tassé.
That is a clear indication that he knew something about the
scenario long ago. Yesterday, he made a statement on television
that he knew nothing about the particular case. I find it very
confusing that the man would say that he knows nothing about
this, yet, on November 4, he was phoned regarding the
very subject.
I can understand that a Minister of Justice does not want to
interfere with the due process of law. However, a letter was
written from a ministry of this government to a ministry in
another country. Apparently, the minister's department wrote to
the Minister of Justice in Switzerland. As a former minister, if a
former head of state were involved, I would have found it very
surprising if my department had not advised me as to what was
happening and that the Prime Minister's Office did not know
what was happening. I can understand the police department
conducting an investigation, but when one department contacts a
like department in another country, I find that to be strange.
Perhaps the Leader of the Government in the Senate could clarify
this situation today.

2267

Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators, the letter, as I
believe my colleague has indicated, was not communicated by
the Minister of Justice. It was communicated by the Department
of Justice Senator Doody: For which the minister is not responsible.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: It is the same letterhead.
Senator Fairbairn: - which, traditionally. is the agency or
the courier which transmits to another country the request from
the RCMP or other police organizations. That is what it has done.
Senator Carney: Indefensible!
Senator Fairbairn: It is not appropriate for the Minister of
Justice, for the Prime Minister or for the Solicitor General, in any
way, shape or form, to be involved or knowledgeable about the
substance and the internal workings of that type of investigation.
There is absolutely no way in which the Minister of Justice
should be involved in any kind of intervention process or
decision-making process in this kind of circumstance. If the
Minister of Justice had been involved, it would be conceded by
members of this house to be inappropriate.
Senator Carney: Why did his department leak it?
Senator Fairbairn: That is my answer to the honourable
member. I said it yesterday, and again today, and I will continue
to say that there should be absolutely no political involvement in
this kind of circumstance and this kind of process. The Minister
of Justice bas been very careful to make that clear in his
comments.
Senator St. Germain: Yet, honourable senators, the Minister
of Justice assumes full responsibility for what goes on in his
department and what bas transpired. How can one be responsible
if one does not know what is happening? There is an
inconsistency here somewhere. There is something wrong in
what has transpired. If I am responsible for you, I must know
what you are doing, or at least I should know what you are doing.
I have the right to know what you are doing.
Senator Graham: The same situation applied to your
govemment.
Senator St. Germain: The minister has clearly stated that he
is responsible. There is confusion somewhere because you
cannot be responsible for a department and not know what is
happening.
Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators, the Department of
Justice has a responsibility to carry out its function in this kind of
circumstance which, as was said yesterday, occurs on numerous
occasions during a year. It carried out its responsi.bility. It
certainly was not the responsibility of the Minister of Justice to
be involved in the substance or have knowledge of this type of
transaction. Again, it would be inappropriate, and indeed
improper, for him to do so.

Hon. John Lynch-Staunton (Leader of the Opposition):
Honourable senators, by way of supplementary, how can the
minister reconcile that statement - which I interpret as trying to
convince us that the Department of Justice is simply a conduit for
the RCMP - with the translation of the letter sent on
Department of Justice letterhead? The translation is unofficial.
Perhaps the minister. if she does not agree, will give us a
correction.
Page
follows:

1 of the translation, under the word "Demand," reads as

The Minister of Justice and Attorney General of Canada is
most kindly asking the Minister of Justice of Switzerland
for judicial assistance for the Canadian government in the
investigation of breaches of Canadian law.
Nowhere do the letters "RCMP" appear. The demand is made
formally by the Department of Justice on behalf of the Minister
of Justice.
To suggest that the RCMP approached the Department of
Justice and demanded that they sign the letter and mail it is
absolute balderdash.
Senator Olson: You know better!
Senator Lynch-Staunton: I do not know that.
Senator Perrault: You had exactly the same guidelines when
you were in government.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: We never made accusations against
former prime ministers and leaked them in the way that this was
leaked.
Senator Olson: Why do you not want the investigation to go
forward?
Senator Lynch-Staunton: We do, and so does Mr. Mulroney.
Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators, I should stress again
that the letter transmitted to the Swiss authorities was a
confidential letter. I do not know exactly what my honourable
friend is reading from.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: I will send you a copy.
Senator Fairbairn: I suggest to honourable senators that the
letter transmitted to the Swiss government was a confidential
letter. It was treated as such by the Department of Justice. This
process bas been employed on many occasions with the Swiss
government, which bas been exemplary in its response to the
recommendation.
0 (440)

With respect to the material which appeared to be in the hands
of the media. this document bas not been seen by the Department
of Justice.

WESTERN ECONOMIC DIVERSIFICATION CANADA
REPORT OF AUDITOR GENERALMANDATE OF AGENCY-GOVERNMENT POLICY

Hon. David Tkachuk: Honourable senators, I would return to
the mundane topic of the Auditor General's report.
The Leader of the Government in the Senate may know that
the Auditor General bas levelled some criticism at the Western
Economic Diversification agency in Western Canada. The
department's response was that the Auditor General failed to take
into account the fact that Western Diversification's mandate
differs from that of all other regional development agencies in
that its primary purpose is to develop and diversify the western
economy, while the other regional economic departments must
address the question of regional disparity.
I should like to ask the Leader of the Government in the
Senate: Which one is it? Is WED's primary mandate to address
regional economic disparity, or is it to develop and diversify the
western economy?

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, the very name of the agency indicates that
it is to use whatever tools it bas to help diversify the economy in
Western Canada and, through that diversification, to bring to
every region of Western Canada the kind of equal opportunity for
economic development which exists everywhere else.
As I understand it, the Auditor General's report is very clear in
its concern about regional differences and regional opportunities
in this country. The Government of Canada shares that concern
and will continue to use all available resources, such as WED, to
assist in development and diversification throughout Western
Canada. We want balanced opportunities for every province and
every part of every province in Western Canada.
Senator Tkachuk: I have a supplementary question.
According to an Access to Information Request made public one
week ago, it was revealed that the minister responsible for WED
made not one but two different promises and commitments to
pay Western Diversification dollars to finance a new hockey
arena in Winnipeg.
Under what public policy would such a hockey arena fall?
Would a hockey arena fall under "regional disparity" because
Winnipeg is perceived by the minister as some sort of destitute
part of the country, or would it fall into the area of
diversification, joining the thousands of other arenas that we
happen to have in Western Canada?
Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators, first, the City of
Winnipeg is one of our most vibrant communities not just in
Manitoba or Western Canada but in this entire country. When
questioning the kinds of improvements that the minister bas tried
to direct within that province, the answer is that be is attempting
to create jobs, to expand opportunity, and to increase the
economic base in those communities, including the great city of
Winnipeg.

November 21, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

Senator Tkachuk: I agree that Winnipeg is a great city, but
now we have a third mandate for WED, which is that of a job
creation agency. WED cannot be everything. If its mandate is to
diversify the economy, please tell us how the building of an arena
in Winnipeg will diversify the economy of Western Canada? If
WED is to address regional disparity, how will a hockey arena in
Winnipeg address regional disparity?
Senator Fairbairn: The question of economic diversification,
wherever it takes place in Canada, carries with it the anticipation
that, in the improvement of these economies, groundwork will be
laid for greater job opportunities for Canadians. I do not believe
there is anything within any of the regional agencies to exclude
these kinds of joint responsibilities and joint expectations. The
reason for the existence of these regional agencies is to improve
the economy, the opportunities, the diversification and the
employment opportunities in their areas.
Senator Olson: Does the honourable senator have a clearer
understanding of the situation now?

2269

hired on a contract basis, without competition, by the Canadian
International Development Agency?
[English]

Senator Fairbairn: I will take that question as notice. If there
is any further information which my friend can provide to help
the process along, I will be glad to receive it.
[Translation]

Senator Nolin: I will provide this information as soon as I
receive a reply from the Leader of the Government.
[English]

BUSINESS OF THE SENATE
REPORT OF LEGAL AND CONSTITUTIONAL AFFAIRS COMMITTEE
ON FIREARMS LEGISLATION-VOTES ON AMENDMENTSREQUEST FOR ADVICE ON PROCEDURE

[Translation]

CANADIAN INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT AGENCY
FILLING OF VACANT POSITIONS WITHOUT
COMPETITION-GOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. Pierre Claude Nolin: Further to the answer the Leader
of the Government in the Senate just gave my colleague,
remember that last week I asked this question: With all those
investments in infrastructures, how did your govemment manage
to lose 56,000 jobs in the construction sector? During the
election campaign, this govemment talked a lot about restoring
integrity in the Canadian government's operations.
Could the Leader of the Government give this house the
assurance that, in the course of its routine business operations,
the Canadian International Development Agency does not award
contracts without a competition?
[English]

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, I am not intimately knowledgeable about
the regulations governing CIDA, but I will certainly take my
honourable friend's question to the minister responsible and
bring the answer back.
[Translation]

Senator Nolin: Honourable senators, when the Leader of the
Government makes these inquiries, or asks the minister to make
them, could she ask him to find out whether any individuals or
businesses with a family connection, in other words, cousins,
sons or daughters of parliamentarians in your govemment, were

Hon. Herbert O. Sparrow: Honourable senators, the report of
the Standing Senate Committee on Legal and Constitutional
Affairs on Bill C-68 contains 14 amendments. The amendments
and the bill will be considered, I understand, at 5:30 p.m. on
Wednesday.
Is there provision for a vote to be held on each of the
amendments in the report, or must the amendments all be voted
on in one vote?
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, that is a question which should be more
properly put to His Honour the Speaker.
The Hon. the Speaker: It is not normal for His Honour to
answer, but if it will assist the Senate, I will do so.
Some Hon. Senators: Hear, hear!
Senator Doody: Well returned, sir.
The Hon. the Speaker: The question before the Senate is
whether the report of the committee is to be adopted or not.
Therefore, the question will be put on the whole report and not
on individual clauses within that report.
Senator Sparrow: If additional amendments are made to the
report in this chamber, will those amendments be considered
individually, or will they be lumped in with all the other
amendments in one vote?
Senator Doody: They certainly cannot be put to the
committee.
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, again, do I have
leave of the Senate to reply?

Hon. Senators: Agreed.

The Hon. the Speaker: As I understand the procedure, if the
vote is at 5:30 p.m., we will be voting on the report of the
committee as a wbole report. We will then proceed directly to
third reading. There will be no interval providîng for any other
amendments. Sequentially, by the decision of the Senate. 1
believe that is the procedure.
9

However. 1 do flot think that we should proceed to discuss this
matter here in the chamber during Question Period. Perhaps the
honourable senator and 1 could have a discussion later.
SOLICITOR GENERAL
EFFICACY 0F SECURITY ARRANGEMENTS AT RESIDENCE OF
PRIME MINISTER-REQUESI FOR RESULTS 0F INVESTIGATION

1450J>

Senator Sparrow: Honourable senators. I therefore ask Ris
Honour wbether it is correct that there is no provision for an
individual senator to move an amendment to the report that will
be voted on separately; or no provision for an individual senator
to move an amendment to the bill itself.
The Hon. the Speaker: Amendments to the report may be
proposed. What is before the Senate is the report of the
committee.

Senator Sparrow: Your Honour, that was not the question.
Due to the fact that Bill C-68 is flot before the chamber at this
time, is there any provision for a senator to move an amendment
to the bill and bave that amendment considered and voted on by
the Senate as a wbole?
The Hon. the Speaker: That can be donc by proposing an
amendment to the report.
Senator Sparrow: Does Your Honour mean to say. "not to
Bill C-68 itself'?
The Hon. the Speaker: Essentially, wbat is before the Senate
is the bill wbicb is being reported from the committee, witb
amendments. Furtber amendments can be proposed to that report.
Senator Sparrow: Normally, at the third reading stage ot a
bill, a senator bas the privilege of moving an amendment. Ras
that rigbt been removed from bonourable senators as a result of
the original vote in the Senate?

Senator Lynch-Staunton: Yes.
Senator Sparrow: Therefore, we do flot bave the right to
move an amendment to Bill C-68.
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, the Senate bas
agreed that the vote will be held at 5:30 p.m. tomorrow. and that
ail matters would be disposed of then. wbicb means that third
reading will follow immediately. However. nothing prevents any
senator from proposing an amendment to the report, wbicb will
bave the same effect as proposing an arnendment to the bill.
Senator Sparrow: Your Honour. it is not normal procedure
that we bave flo opportunity to amend Bill C-68. Your Honour is
saying that there is provision f'or amending the report, whicb
does flot amend the bill itself.
The Hon. the Speaker: It does because the report amends the
bill. Any turtber amendments will furtber amnend the bill.

Hon. Consigio Di Nino: Honourable senators, 1 have a
question for the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Perhaps
1 arn being a littie paranoid here, but the responses received to
the inquiries of my colleagues on this dastardly deed dealing
with a previous prime minister are merely a pointing of tingers at
the RCMP. In etfect, the government is saying, "The RCMP is at
fault. Tbey are the ones who are to blame if any blame is to be
placed."
This brings me to, another incident which bas been discussed in
this chamber, namely, the unfortunate incident of the break-in at
the Prime Minister's residence. In regard to that matter, we are
being told that the RCMP is at fault and that we will bang tbem
because tbey bave made ail kinds of mistakes.
Because of the effect this will bave on the morale of the
RCMP - and, unfortunately, 1 tbink it is happening too often
across the country to other police forces as well - could the
minister find out for us wbether the alarmn system was really not
functioning or wbetber it was turned off? If it was turned off.,
wbo tumned it off'? Also. were there other remedies available to
the Prime Minister and Mrs. Chrétien to caîl upon the services ot
police forces that tbey may flot bave used?
1 arn concemned that so mucb blame is being placed on the
RCMP unnecessarily.

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, I think everyone in this chamber would
agree and applaud wben 1 say that the RCMP is one of the
outstanding police forces anywbere in the world.
Hon. Senators: Hear, bear!
Senator Fairbairn: Its activities, botb nationally in the
provinces wbere it operates as the provincial police force and
intemnationally, are to be viewed witb great pride by Canadians.
That is fundamental to my response.
The Solicitor General bas received a report on the situation
surrounding the events two weeks ago at 24 Sussex Drive, the
residence of the Prime Minister. He bas indicated that he will try
to make the findings of that report as public as be can under the
requirements of security. He wiIl, 1 arn sure, do that.
The Senate will know, from public statements that bave been
made, that any sbortcomings that existed at the Prime Minister's
residence and the grounds bave been addressed already by the
RCMP. and there is every confidence that this kind of situation
will flot arise again.

SENATE DEBATES

November 21, 1995

Senator Di Nino: Honourable senators, could the Leader of
the Govemment attempt to obtain an answer to the question that
I asked vis-à-vis the alarm system?
Senator Fairbairn: I cannot make any promises, honourable
senators, but I shall try.
JUSTICE
MINISTER'S VIEW ON EFFICACY OF JAILING NON-VIOLENT YOUNG
OFFENDERS-APPLICATION OF SAME PRINCIPLE
TO TRANSGRESSORS AGAINST FIREARMS LEGISLATIONGOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. Jean-Maurice Simard: Honourable senators, in today's
edition of that great Liberal newspaper, The Toronto Star, there is
an article under the signature of Tim Harper, Ottawa bureau
correspondent. The headline of the article reads: "Jailing youths
a waste justice minister says."
The article states, in part:
Too many young, non-violent offenders are behind bars in
this country, costing taxpayers money and doing nothing for
victims of their crimes...
The Minister of Justice is quoted as saying in this article:
The most important thing we can do is restore and rebuild
public confidence in the youth justice system....The system
will not be effective unless it's credible....There are huge
chunks of money being spent locking up kids who are no
threat to us...
The article continues:
He said it costs about $100,000 a year to keep a young
offender behind bars - up to $300,000 in the territories with the tab totalling about $250 million each year for
keeping non-violent offenders in custody.
Will the Leader of the Government in the Senate not undertake
to try to convince her government and Mr. Rock, the Minister of
Justice, that they should show more consistency in their approach
to the justice system? There is no need to remind honourable
senators that, later, we will be voting on Bill C-68, which
contains a provision to jail non-violent people who are convicted
of committing a second offence for a minimum of one year, and
two years less one day for the third offence. Canadians in New
Brunswick said no. Another Liberal govemment has told us that
because the system is so overcrowded and so costly, they made a
decision some months ago that, in order to reduce costs, they
would hire a U.S. firm to supervise and keep an eye on the youth
and other people presently in jail.
0 (1500)

Senator Oison: What is the question?

2271

Senator Simard: I am asking the Leader of the Govemment
to undertake to try to convince her government and the Minister
of Justice to take their time and reflect on some of these
amendments that we are proposing. One such amendment deals
with not criminalizing people found in possession of guns, so
that they would thus not have a criminal record. Certainly, the
options on penalties should be left to the judge, but such
penalties should not include a one or two year jail sentence for
non-violent people.
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, we started yesterday, and will continue
today and tomorrow, a debate on Bill C-68 and the report on that
bill that has been sent to us by the Standing Senate Committee on
Legal and Constitutional Affairs. I certainly would not wish to
prejudge any voting that would take place tomorrow. I am sure
that these issues, and the one mentioned by my honourable
friend, will undoubtedly be raised and discussed during the
course of the debate.
I return to the beginning of my friend's question concerning
young offenders and the review that is taking place with respect
to the provisions in our system to deal with them. I will certainly
convey those comments to the Minister of Justice. As with all
other parliamentarians, over the next while the Minister of
Justice will be trying to find a better way of ensuring that our
young people in Canada have the kind of opportunities that will
prevent them from becoming entangled in the criminal justice
system, as well as having the most protective and fairest way of
dealing with those who find themselves in trouble with the law.
Senator Simard: I have a supplementary question: How can
the government and the Leader of the Govemment in the Senate
reconcile the philosophy, the spirit and the content of Bill C-68
with the statement of the Minister of Justice that I just read into
the record here a few minutes ago? He admits that too many
non-violent people are in jail.
Everyone realizes that this bill came into existence and is
being pushed through - or rather, railroaded - in the Senate.
The government could take another six months to reflect on these
amendments if six months is required. No doubt this bill is before
us only as a result of something that appeared in the Red Book.
However, Canadians are seeing clearer with every passing day,
that not only will this bill be costly, but also it will not, to any
extent, end the violence towards women and other people. In
other words, by asking us to vote tomorrow on this bill An Hon. Senator: This is Question Period!
Senator Simard: empty promise.

we are being asked to borrow on an

Therefore, will the Leader of the Government consider
withdrawing her motion that the vote be taken tomorrow, in order
that the govemment might reflect on the bill that is now before
us, and perhaps come up with an improved bill?

Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators, that sounds like the
beginning of my honourable friend's speech in the debate. The
bill, as he knows, has been before us since mid-June. I would
only say to my honourable friend that this is not the time for
debating the legislation.
There are varying points of view on this legislation. The
Canadian people also have a point of view. A great many of them
are holding out hope that this bill will help do what my friend
does not believe it can. Others would disagree with them.
We need a sense of security in dealing with criminal activity in
this country. That is part of the debate surrounding this bill.
Undoubtedly we will be hearing more of it as the day goes on.
FIREARMS LEGISLATION-EFFICACY OF RESEARCH OF
MINISTER-GOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. Leonard J. Gustafson: My supplementary question is
along the same lines, triggered by an article in The Globe and
Mail. That article states, as Justice Minister Allan Rock put it,
that time is running out on the bill.
My question is simple: As a member of cabinet, do you feel
that the minister conducted proper research with respect to this
bill? I have never seen so much confusion across the country on
anything as I have seen on this bill. The minister, in this article,
is blaming the Senate, and he has not donc his research.

Motion agreed to and bill read third time and passed.

ELECTORAL BOUNDARIES
READJUSTMENT BILL, 1995
MOTION TO INSTRUCT LEGAL AND CONSTITUTIONAL AFFAIRS
COMMITTEE TO TABLE FINAL REPORT-VOTE DEFERRED

On the Order:
Resuming the debate on the motion of the Honourable
Senator Fairbaim, P.C., seconded by the Honourable Senator
Stewart,
That it be an instruction of this House to the Standing
Senate Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs that
no later than Wednesday, 22nd November, 1995, it present
its final report to the Senate on the Message from the House
of Commons, dated June 20, 1995, and on the motion of the
Honourable Senator Graham dated June 28, 1995, regarding
Bill C-69, An Act to provide for the establishment of
electoral boundaries commissions and the readjustment of
electoral boundaries.

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):

Hon. John Lynch-Staunton (Leader of the Opposition):

Honourable senators, an enormous amount of work, consultation.
discussion, research, evaluation and re-evaluation has taken place
on this issue over a period of more than one and a half years. I
cannot comment on what may or may not happen with the -

Honourable senators, I do not have anything to add on this
motion and I will try not to repeat what has already been said on
this side as to our feelings about Bill C-69. However, I want to
comment on the fact that whenever senators on the other side
have been speaking in support of the bill, their main argument
has been not so much on the merits of the bill itself but on the
assertion that the Senate should butt out of any interest in the
electoral distribution process. "Butt out" is a rather crude term to
by Mr. Milliken at one time, Minister
summarize the use Gray at another time. Senator Carstairs on more than one
occasion, and Senator Fairbairn - of a quotation from Senator
Flynn when he was Leader of the Government in the Senate
when this chamber was looking at the Representation Bill, 1985.
Senator Flynn, in proposing the bill, as quoted by Senator
Fairbairn and others, said:

Senator Berntson: The research is supposed to be done before
a bill is drafted.
Senator Fairbairn: - with the other place. There is an
interest in what is happening in this place, and how we are
getting on with our responsibilities. Our committee has reported;
the debate is in progress. We will be reaching some decisions
tomorrow, and we will go on from there. It would be wrong of
me to presume to predict what may or may not happen tomorrow.

ORDERS OF THE DAY
CULTURAL PROPERTY EXPORT AND IMPORT ACT
INCOME TAX ACT
TAX COURT OF CANADA ACT
BILL TO AMEND-THIRD READING

Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government) moved the third reading of Bill C-93, to amend
the Cultural Property Export and Import Act, the Income Tax Act
and the Tax Court of Canada Act.

In any event, I would say this is an area that almost
exclusively concerns the House of Commons, and I think
that we, as a non-elected chamber and as appointed
legislators, are hardly in a position to tel] the members of
the House of Commons how they should proceed to draw
the boundaries of their electoral districts.
We ail have great respect for the former Senator Flynn, who
held important positions here and in the Government of Canada.
After hearing this statement used over and over again, I finally
decided to get in touch with Senator Flynn to find out exactly
what the sense of that remark was, and still is. His reply was,
"Read all I said and read what I said after."

November 21, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

2273

Honourable senators, I went to our Hansard, the Debates of the
Senate, and here is what he said immediately after this oft-quoted
statement.

redistribution, I found the remarks of Senator Corbin, who took
great issue with Senator Flynn's statement for four reasons. The
tirst one was:

Nevertheless, if there were some major questions of
principle, the Senate would certainly have a contribution to
make.

...we, as senators, are involved on four counts: first of all, as
individuals, we are voters like any other Canadian who is
entitled to vote...

At the time, the Senate was debating an amendment to the
Constitution Act and to the Electoral Boundaries Readjustment
Act to slow down the growth of seats in the House of Commons.
The proposal was to change the formula so as to limit the number
of members to 295 based on the 1981 census. The formula in
place at the time would have seen membership in the House of
Commons increase to 310, in 1991 to 343, and, based on
projections in the year 2001, to 369. This fundamental change
was more a technical amendment rather than scrapping a law and
replacing it with another.

Second, it has been understood ever since the beginning
of Confederation that the Senate speaks for the interests of
the regions and the provinces...

That was what the debate was all about. What Senator Flynn
said at the time is what he said, but what Senator Fairbairn and
her colleagues forgot to add is that Senator Flynn went on to
confirm the responsibilities of the Senate, that when there is a
question of principle, the Senate certainly bas a contribution to
make.
The principles involved in this bill are numerous. One of them
is that the Government of Canada respect its obligation under the
Constitution to engage in redistribution as soon as the figures of
the previous decennial census are known.
Another principle, among many, is that the independence of
the process be respected. Bill C-69 seeks to ensure that the next
election is not based on the 1981 census. Certainly, the
independence of the process is severely challenged.
Honourable senators, I had many notes to bring in support of
my argument, but as I read the debate surrounding the
Representation Bill of 1985 - a debate which started in
December 1985 and went through to early February 1986 - I
was struck by how the arguments used at the time by our friends
opposite would serve me just as well. I feel, therefore, that if it is
fair for our friends on the other side to quote colleagues on this
side to support their cause, I can do the same to support mine. In
this case, however, I will not lift the statements out of context. I
will give their true meaning.
For instance, honourable senators, Senator Stewart told us in a
very erudite and thoughtful presentation on this whole issue, well
researched and certainly deserving of much praise, that one of
the main functions of the Senate is to protect the interests of the
provinces. He also went on to state that if that bill went through,
according to him it would be unfair to British Columbia and
Alberta as they would not have the additional seats to which they
were entitled. To quote him, h.e said, "That is one reason why I
believe that this whole venture is bad."
As I went on and caught up with other speakers, all of them
questioning the purpose of the bill and its impact on a fair

Third, senators are specifically involved in the adjustment
process, as stated in clause 7 of the bill.
It said, as the current act says:
...any member of Parliament may make representations...
Of course, senators are members of Parliament.
He added:
... we are the chamber of sober second thought and of
correction when the bills we get are badly drafted.
Honourable senators, we on this side are doing exactly what
our friends felt was their obligations when they were on this side.
No doubt the sentiments they felt then are certainly felt as deeply
today.
Finally, Senator Corbin said:
The Senate was established to uphold provincial and
regional interests,and to protect the House of Commons
against its own excesses.
Now, if any excesses have been created by the House of
Commons through self-interest, it is certainly Bill C-69 which is
before us.
Senator MacEachen also made a contribution along the same
lines. He deplored the fact that capping or limiting the gross
number of seats would mean that the Atlantic provinces would be
penalized. He went on to add:
The provinces of Ontario, British Columbia and Alberta,
which, under this bill, and under the present law, are entitled
to substantial increases in the number of seats, will be
denied those increases...
Honourable senators, we are faced with the same problem
today. If Bill C-69 is allowed to go through, it will more than
likely mean that Ontario and British Columbia, which are
entitled to additional seats, will not get them in time for the next
federal election.
Last, but certainly not least, Senator Fairbaim, who quoted in
part a key statement from Senator Flynn, also objected to the act.
This is what she had to say:

...I wish to register my very real concern that the process
which bas produced this bill may aleady have jeopardized
the opportunity of the Province of Alberta and its sister
Province of British Columbia to finally claim the extra
representation which they deserve in the House of
Commons because of the growth of their populations over
the last two decades.
Honourable senators, today we face the same problem the
Senate faced in 1985; namely, to ensure that the redistribution
process respect the constitutional requirement that the most
recent decennial census be used as quickly and expeditiously as
possible to allow for redistribution as much as possible for the
full election. That bas not always happened, unfortunately,
because of the time needed to complete the process before the
next election. What was said then is certainly valid today. I
simply want to thank my colleagues opposite for allowing me to
reinforce my arguments against Bill C-69 with even more
convincing arguments which I can find, and have found, in their
statements of 1985.
0

(1520)

As for Bill C-69 itself, this bill is the result of a compromise
reached between the two chambers after the government initially
wanted to suspend the process for two years in a not too
disguised attempt to ensure that the next federal election would
be held on the basis of the 1981 census. We said that that was a
bit much, that it was disrespectful of the constitutional obligation
and, therefore, the delay should be shortened.
We compromised on June 20 or 21, 1995. Because of
mismanagement - and it can only be called that - of the
government's legislative program, the bill was not passed in
time. The bill was not passed by the deadline. It still bas not been
passed.

We thought that it would be wise to avoid the possibility
that, before new legislation updating the process was passed
by both the House of Commons and the Senate, the time
period of suspension would elapse and automatically the
redistribution would start up again under the old rules.
In other words, the govemment wanted enough time to avoid
the predicament that they are in now, which is that Bill C-69 was
not passed in time, and the old process has kicked in. After I
briefly summarize the original arguments, those arguments which
were accepted by both houses, I will turn to their new argument.
Mr. Boudria, the whip of the government - a not insignificant
figure in the leadership of the majority on the other side - said
in the other place on June 15, seven days before the deadline,
that if the bill were not passed by the House of Commons later
that day in its final version, the bill might well die, because under
one of its provisions a bill must be passed by the other bouse and
receive Royal Assent no later than the 20th day of the current
month.
He said the 20th but he obviously meant June 22. He added
that if this bill, with all its provisions, were not passed that day at
the latest, they would be unable to deal with the matter and the
bill would die.
Senator Stanbury, on June 21, as the spokesman for the
govemment in this chamber, said that our time was very limited
and that both sides had understood those time limitations. He
said that if the bill were to become legislation before the end of
the suspension to June 22 provided by Bill C-18, it needed to be
given Royal Assent that evening.
Senator Stanbury: That is the key: "before the end of the
suspension."

The govemnment now says that, when the deadline for passage
of the bill had passed, the old process kicked back in; all that had
been suspended when Bill C-69 was not passed bas been
reinstated. The maps were deposited in front of the House of
Commons because they were nearly complete. Now we know
where we stand.

Senator Lynch-Staunton: Government spokesmen were
unanimous on the significance of the deadline: if the bill were
not passed by that deadline, it would be a dead issue. But what
happened on the momning of June 22?

We were told repeatedly that, if a deadline were not met,
Bill C-69 would die on the Order Paper, and E-3, which is the
current act regarding electoral redistribution, would be in place.

Senator Lynch-Staunton: The original process started up
again, with the government saying that the bill was still on the
Order Paper. We agree. Physically, the bill is on the Order Paper.

Honourable senators, these are not my interpretations; these
are the interpretations of spokesmen for the government. For
instance, Mr. Milliken moved third reading of Bill C-18 which
then included a two-year delay. He stated then that if, at the end
of that time, there is no new mechanism put in place by
legislation, the redistribution commissions will restart their work.

The government insists that, once it is passed, the current
process will come to a stop again and the new process will kick
in. This is in absolute contradiction to what was said during the
entire debate in both chambers and in front of our committee
regarding the significance of the deadline.

When be appeared before our committee, Minister Gray, in
reply to a question by Senator Jessiman concerning the logic
behind the two-year suspension, said:

1Senal or Lvncli Staunton 1

Senator Beaudoin: The resurrection.

It is an interpretation of the deadline which we share. As far as
we are concerned, Bill C-69 is a dead issue which should no
longer be before us. But here it is, and we must decide this
afternoon what to do with it.

November 21, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

What are we faced with? The House of Commons, within the
next 10 days, will be reporting to the electoral commissions their
recommendations on the maps which have been before the House
for some time. This is the last step in a long process.
The electoral commissions will then make their own reports
based on that advice and, by early June 1996, if the current
process is allowed to be completed, the new maps will be
confirmed and will come into force one year later, which is
January 1997.
That means, based on the usual frequency of elections in this
country, that it is more than likely that the next federal election
- probably sometime in 1997 - will be held on the basis of
redistribution which uses the 1991 census. It would mean that
Ontario would get its four additional seats and B.C. would get its
two additional seats.
What are the origins of Bill C-69? This bill was not a priority
for the Government of Canada. It is not referred to anywhere in
the Red Book. This bill came out of a sentiment of a number of
malcontents new to the Liberal caucus, most of them from
Ontario, who, by their own admission, on having seen the
preliminary maps, suddenly realized that, if these were to be
confirmed, their chances of re-election would be severely
jeopardized because, in effect, they would have to start all over
again.
One member, as matter of fact - and I paraphrase him
because I did not bring his actual quote - said that he had
worked for years to get to where he was, and that it was all being
taken away from him.
We are being asked to endorse this proprietary attitude towards
ridings: Once you are elected, it belongs to the member; forget
about equal distribution, as extraordinarily difficult as it is to
apply across this country; and keep in mind only the interests of
the sitting members.
As a matter of fact, Bill C-69 would have played into the
hands of these malcontents, despite the fact that they would have
denied, at the same time, additional seats to Ontario and British
Columbia.
To restart the process, which has already cost $6 million,
would certainly cost another $6 million. We are now just a few
weeks away from the end of a process which has not been
criticized, except by those who find that their seats are being
affected.
What is wrong with that? Why have a redistribution process if
seats are not adjusted? Seats are not being adjusted to curry
favour with sitting members; seats are being adjusted in order to
ensure, as much as possible, that a vote, no matter where it is cast
in this country, is as equal as any other vote. It is impossible to

2275

do so because of certain constitutional requirements, but the
purpose of the electoral commission is to strive for that goal as
much as possible.
If Bill C-69 is passed, the redistribution process will be
delayed by one year. The calendar has already been fixed by
Mr. Kingsley. It is public knowledge that if redistribution based
on the 1991 census started immediately, it would not be
confirmed and applicable until January 1998. Consequently, in
all likelihood, the next election, in 1997, will be based, on
population figures dating back to 1981, and neither British
Columbia nor Ontario will have the benefit of additional seats
according to its population.
Finally, Bill C-69 jeopardizes the impartiality of the process.
At the moment, each province is entitled to three electoral
commissioners: The chairman is named by the chief justice of
the highest court of the province, and the two commissioners are
named by the Speaker of the House of Commons. The Speaker
has absolute autonomy and independence in selecting the two
commissioners. There is no question that he or she, as the case
may be, consults with the most interested parties and others. The
selections must be pretty good under that system, because of all
the criticisms that one hears about the process, never has there
been one criticism about those three members in each province
who contribute to improving the redistribution layout of this
land.
Under Bill C-69, that changes drastically. The chairmen are
still named by the chief justice in each province and the two
members are each named by the Speaker of the House of
Commons, except that Bill C-69 adds two words, namely, "after
consultation". It does not say "after consultation with whom,"
but it does not have to say that because, as you go down the bill
a little bit, it also says that, if 20 members of the House of
Commons are dissatisfied with the Speaker's choices, they can
move a motion in the House of Commons and call for a vote. In
other words, members of the House are introducing two things:
the possibility of a vote of non-confidence in the Speaker of the
House of Commons; and, obviously, a key role in determining
the majority membership of each commission. There is no
question that if 20 members of the majority - or, combined with
members of the minority - are unhappy with the selections, they
can easily overrule the Speaker's decision.
The decision of the Speaker of the House of Commons, the
final authority of our highest elected House, cannot be
challenged. Unlike decisions made by our Speaker here, in the
other place there is so much respect for his authority that none of
his decisions can be overruled. Suddenly, the government
introduces in an act the possibility, by resolution of the House, of
overruling membership in a body which is to be as impartial as
possible.

With Bill C-69. the govcrnment is trying to allow sitting
members' iniput in the redistribution process right t'rom the
beginning by having a veto over the majority membership of
each commission. That is also another question of' principle.
That. alone, is enough to reject this proposed act. That argument
and aIl the other arguments. to which I have added those of our
friends opposite to reintèrce them. have convinced me and my
colleagues that this country will be better off by allowing the
prescnit process to be completed and by having the maps. which
will be confirmed and go into place in January. 1997. In so
doing. there is a good possibility that the next election wîll be
based on what is being completed now to confirm that British
Columbia and Ontario wiIl have their additional seats.
Otherwise, Bill C-69 will. in aIl likelihood. sec the next election
fought on the basis of the present distribution.
That, alone. is enough reason f'or us to confirm that this bill is
not in the public interest. It is in the interest of a small number of'
people who has its own selfish gains at heart more than those of
the Canadian public and the regions of this country. That is what
we are here l'or, and that is reason enough to vote against the
motion.

Hon. Sharon Carstairs: Honourable senators. earlier the
Leader of the Opposition suggested -and I will put it in that
framework -that both myseif and Senator Fairbairu said that
there was no role for the Senate to play in this particular piece of
legislation. That is the opposite to what Senator Fairbairn and 1
have said repeatedly. We have stated that there is a very clear
role f'or the Senate, but the Senate in its entirety and flot the
Senate in committee. However. it has been the choice of those
opposite to bury Bill C-69 in committee and not allow it to come
to a vote on the floor of this chamber.
If aIl senators are to do their duty appropriately and to fultil
their mandate constitutionally. then one of the most f'undamental
parliamentary acts that they must participate in is a vote. That
does not mean the few senators on the Legal and Constitutional
Atiairs Committee: it means ail the senators. That is what we
have urged over and over again. namely. that ail senators vote on
Bill C-69. That is why I urge you this evening to vote at 5:30 for
that process to take place, so that aIl senators caii stand up and be
counted on Bill C-69.
My primary reason for speaking today is to address the
remarks made earlier by Senator Beaudoin. Senator Beaudoin. in
quoting from the entirety of Senator Flynn's speech - and in S()
doingy. 1 think he made an important contribution - mentioned
the same phrase that Senator Lynch-Staunton has just mentioned,
namely, that the Senate had a real role to play in a matter of
principle.
Senator Beaudoin then went on to address bis remarks to the
25-per-cent rule, the rule upon which populations of
constituencies should be based. except in extraordinary

1 Senaloi Lv nclh Stiiatot

1

circumstances. It is that particular point that 1 wish to address
today.
Honourable senators he believes that a IS-per-cent rule would
be more equitable, and more representative of' one citizen. one
vote. However, honourable senators, the reality in Canada is that
there is flot a system of one citizen, one vote. We have. as a resuit
of' constitutional limitations and geographic disparity.
tremendous differences in the~ number of' votes per constituency
that are eligible to be cast in any given election.
For example. we do flot have a national quotient. We have
provincial quotients. By their very nature, provincial quotients
are extremcly uneven. According to the 1981 census. upoI1 which
the prescrnt boundaries are based. the provincial quotient f'or
P.E.I.. for example, is 30,627 people. The provincial quotient for
Ontario is 90. 116 people. In other words, if you are a voter in
Ontario, your vote is only worth one-third of a Prince Edward
Islander's vote -perhaps that is appropriate -or, to put it
another way. if you are an Islander. your vote is worth three times
the vote of an Ontarian. Is that fair? Is it equitable' 0 f course it
is not. but it is reality. I is reality because Prince Edward Island
has a constitutional guarantee of f'our scats.
Honourable senators. that is not the only distortion.
0

(1540)

What if we were to apply the 15 per-cent rule based on the
1981 census? 1 went back and looked at aIl of the constituencies
in 198 1 to sec how many would be out of sync as the result of a
15 per-cent rule at the national level. The national quotient
would be 90,000 minus 15. which would be 77.000: plus
15 would be 104.000.
1 looked at the constituency boundaries and 1 discovered that,
clearly. aIl four in P.E.I. would be in violation-, two in
Newfoundland; five in Nova Scotia; seven in New Brunswick:
12 in Quebec; eight in Ontario; eight in Manitoba; 10 in
Saskatchewan; four in Alberta; two in British Columbia; one in
the Yukon and both ridings of'the Northwest Territories.
I decided 1 must look at those constituencies to find out what it
was they had in common. AIl those ridings are in smaller
provinces or in rural areas - and I include the north - or they
are in both.
Honourable senators, this is the geographic reality of Canada.
Surely thcsc Canadians are entitled to some equality not just in
their voting but in their representation. Surely their members of'
Parliament should be able to get to see them every now and then.
Madam Justice McLachlin, in the Supreme Court ruling in the
so-called "Carters" case. which involved Saskatchewan
boundaries. allowed the 25-per-cent rule in that province.
Incidentally. we also have a similar 25-per-cent rule for
communities outside of Winnipeg in Manitoba. This very
important ruling states:

November 21, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

It is my conclusion that the purpose of the right to vote
enshrined in s. 3 of the Charter is not equality of voting
power per se, but the right to "effective representation"...

If you use the 15-per-cent rule, you would still only have
51 ridings that violated the principle. All of those 51 ridings were
in remote areas.

What are the conditions of effective representation? The
first is relative parity of voting power...

In my view, that is why, despite the fact that the Lortie
Commission recommended a move to 15 per cent of provincial
quotient, it was rejected by the House of Commons committee
which studied this report. Geography, I would suggest, got in the
way. The reality of Canada got in the way. Practicality got in the
way.

But parity of voting power, though of prime importance,
is not the only factor to be taken into account...
First, absolute parity is impossible...
Secondly, such relative parity as may be possible of
achievement may prove undesirable because it has the effect
of detracting from the primary goal of effective
representation. Factors like geography, community history,
community interests and minority representation may need
to be taken into account to ensure that our legislative
assemblies effectively represent the diversity of our social
mosaic... The concept of absolute voter parity does not
accord with the development of the right to vote in the
Canadian context and does not permit of sufficient
flexibility to meet the practical difficulties inherent in
representative govemment in a country such as Canada.
With those words, she upheld the 25-per-cent variation.
Let us be practical for a moment. The last time I spoke, I
talked about the Churchill riding in northern Manitoba. Because
I think it important that you learn a little more about Manitoba
every time I speak, I will speak today about the Dauphin-Swan
River riding.
The Dauphin-Swan River riding meets the 25-per-cent test but
it does not meet the 15-per-cent test. It runs about 17.8 per cent
over its provincial variance. This is a very large riding,
300 kilometres long, 180 kilometres wide, with a square
kilometerage of 47,260.
That means you could take nine P.E.I.s and put them in the
constituency of Dauphin-Swan River. If you took all of Nova
Scotia, it would fit into Dauphin-Swan River. It takes a member
of Parliament - and I have done it many times, let me assure
you - six hours to get from one end of her constituency to the
other because of geographical barriers, such as Rocky Mountain
Park, that one must go through. That riding is four-and-a-half
hours by car from Winnipeg. Flights are only available to the
town of Dauphin, and occasionally to the town of Swan River at
the opposite end of the constituency, but to nowhere in between.
That is very typical of a Manitoba or Saskatchewan rural
constituency.
In the last redistribution, honourable senators, only five ridings
in all of Canada failed to meet the 25-per-cent rule. It is used
very sparingly, using provincial and not national quotients.

While I agree that it is a very laudable goal to get as close to
15 per cent as possible, it would simply put far too great a
hardship on some Canadians to get appropriate representation. It
would also put far too great a burden on some members of
Parliament.
Personally, I believe that if we were truly interested in real
representation in Canada, we would be concerned less with
percentage factors and more with real representation.
In the last election, the Progressive Conservatives received
about 18 per cent of the popular vote, and yet they won only two
seats. I confirmed that recollection with Senator Nolin today; he
and I agreed on that number. Frankly, that was a miscarriage of
justice. If we had had a proportional representation system in
Canada, at the purest level, the Progressive Conservatives would
have 43 seats. That is a situation, as I have said to Senator
Comeau before, which would be preferable over the present
makeup of the House of Commons.
Even with a modified form of proportional representation, the
Conservative Party in the last election would likely have had at
least official party status, which, again in my view, would have
been an improvement over the present "state of the nation" in the
other place.
Yet, proportional representation, or PR, in any form was
rejected by the Lortie Commission.
I have addressed many of the other aspects of this legislation
which Senator Lynch-Staunton has addressed today. Clearly, I
disagree with the points he bas raised. However, as I have urged
senators before, I urge senators again today to give themselves
the opportunity to vote and fulfil their democratic duty.
The chamber decided not to vote on this bill in July, preferring
to send it back to committee. The bill bas remained in committee
but, until this morning, we did not hold a single meeting on this
bill through July, August, September, October and three-quarters
of November.
This is not democracy. We would al agree that we are
supposedly the chamber of sober second thought. Surely we are
not the chamber of no thought.

If senators are opposed to this bill, then they must exercise
their conscience and vote against it. It is neither appropriate nor
parliamentary to hide behind a committee and refuse to allow the
ultimate in parliamentary procedure - the vote of the whole
Senate chamber - to take place. I urge honourable senators to
support this motion, which does not have the effect of passing the
bill. However, it will force the committee to report to this
chamber, and honourable senators can then vote on the bill as
conscience dictates.
a

(5o

Honourable senators should
of Commons bill, as are most
this one is special because
Members of Parliament. It is
process has been overhauled.
but a committee process.

remember that this bill is a House
of the bills we receive. However,
it does not affect us. It affects
the first time since 1963 that the
It was not a govemment process

If we act quickly, as we were informed this morning, it is
likely that the next election will be fought on new boundaries. If
we continue to delay, I suggest that so too, perhaps, will the
House of Commons, and new boundaries will not be put into
place. An all-party committee of the House of Commons has
urged us to get on with it. I do not suggest we get on with it, I
simply suggest we vote on it.
Hon. Consiglio Di Nino: Honourable senators, I should like to
take this opportunity to make a brief intervention on this subject.
For those in this chamber who do not know who Elbridge
Gerry was, please allow me to put on the record the reason why
his place in history is assured. Mr. Gerry was a signatory to the
Declaration of Independence and he was Governor of
Massachusetts in the early nineteenth century. He was not above
being party to a little questionable manipulation to achieve his
goals. Mr. Gerry was a rabid Jeffersonian, and in the election of
1812, the Massachusetts electoral map was redrawn to favour
Jeffersonian candidates. I would like to believe this is why
Canadians and Americans fought the war of 1812, but obviously
that is not the case. After Mr. Gerry's changes, the map was so
contorted that it looked like a salamander. As I understand it, that
is how the term "gerrymandering" came about.
Honourable senators, we have all heard the comments of
Mr. Sarkis Assadourian, MP for the Ontario riding of Don Valley
North, the gentleman to whom Senator Lynch-Staunton referred
a few moments ago. If we succumb to the Chrétien govemment's
pressure to pass this bill, we can then immortalize
Mr. Assadourian, and Canada will have its own term when
referring to future manipulations of electoral boundaries. The
term will be "sarkising."
The Hon. the Speaker: Is it your pleasure, honourable
senators, to adopt the motion?
Some Hon. Senators: Yes.
Some Hon. Senators: No.
The Hon. the Speaker: Will those honourable senators in
favour of Ile motion please say "yea"?

1Senator Carstairs I

Some Hon. Senators: Yea.
The Hon. the Speaker: Will those honourable senators
opposed to the motion please say "nay"?
Some Hon. Senators: Nay.
The Hon. the Speaker: In my opinion, the "nays" have it.
And two honourable senators having risen:
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, pursuant to the
order of your honourable house, this vote will be deferred until
five thirty o'clock this afternoon.
NATIONAL DEFENCE
SPECIAL COMMISSION ON RESTRUCTURING OF THE
RESERVES-REPORT REFERRED TO SOCIAL AFFAIRS.
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY COMMITTEE

Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government), pursuant to notice of November 20, 1995, moved:
That the Standing Senate Committee on Social Affairs,
Science and Technology be authorized to examine the
Report of the Special Commission on the Restructuring of
the Reserves, tabled in the Senate on November 7, 1995;
That the committee present its final report no later than
January 15, 1996; and
That, notwithstanding usual practices. if the Senate is not
sitting when the final report of the committee is completed,
the committee shall deposit its report with the Clerk of the
Senate, and said report shall thereupon be deemed to have
been tabled in this Chamber.
The Hon. the Speaker: Is it your pleasure, honourable
senators, to adopt the motion?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Motion agreed to.
[Translation j
FIREARMS BILL
CONSIDERATION OF REPORT OF COMMITTEEDEBATE SUSPENDED

On the Order:
Resuming the debate on the motion of the Honourable
Senator Beaudoin, seconded by the Honourable Senator
Grimard, for the adoption of the sixteenth report of the
Standing Senate Committee on Legal and Constitutional
Affairs (Bill C-68. an Act respecting firearms and other
weapons. with amendments), presented in the Senate on
Monday. November 20. 1995.

November 21, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

Hon. Jean-Louis Roux: Honourable senators, as a newcomer
in the Upper House, I must admit that Bill C-68 is a real enigma
to me. This bill was carefully drafted by senior officiais of the
Department of Justice and carefully reviewed by a committee of
the other place, which heard from 64 organizations and six
aboriginal associations, and whose report included over Il
amendments. This is a bill whose objectives are unquestionably
commendable, since it seeks to protect the lives of innocent
people and the right of every Canadian to enjoy a free, safe and
peaceful life, and also to prevent the use of firearms for criminal
purposes. It is a bill which, according to recent polls, enjoys the
support of a large majority of Canadians across the country.
Indeed, a recent Angus Reid poli shows that 64 per cent of
Canadians support that initiative, while only 32 per cent are
opposed to it. As for registration, 71 per cent of Canadians are in
favour of such a measure, while only 26 per cent are opposed.
Another poll conducted by Insight Canada Research shows that
61 per cent of Ontarians feel that firearms legislation should be
more strict. This is a bill which has generated a very large
number of letters addressed to our respective offices.
It is true that many who wrote, and most of them being from
Western Canada, were opposed to Bill C-68. Personally, I made a
point of answering each and every one of those letters and I
sincerely hope that I helped change the opinion of their authors.
However, just as many, if not more, letters came from people
who expressed their concern at the large number of suicides,
homicides and accidents resulting in death or injuries, which
occur in Canada and which are due to firearms being stolen or
not properly stored. Many of these testimonies came from young
students at the elementary, secondary or college level. These
letters had a profound effect on me because they came from
those who represent the future of our country. This, then. is a bill
which has all the basic elements for success.
Yet, the Senate deemed it advisable to have it studied again by
its Standing Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs;
something that is perfectly legitimate. During that committee's
hearings, a large number of witnesses, including many who
already had been heard by the House Committee, appeared to
repeat their presentations for or against Bill C-68. Many were
heard once again when some of the committee members held
rogatory hearings, particularly in the West and in the Yukon, the
two areas in which there is a heavy concentration of opponents to
the bill. Many honourable senators still have serious reservations
about the bill, so much so that the committee's report
recommends sizeable amendments. These, in my opinion,
diminish the bill to such an extent that, in several areas, it is only
an empty shell.
Why is there such persistent opposition? I do not doubt the
sincerity of the senators, the individuals or the associations still
in opposition to Bill C-68 as it now stands, so the only
conclusion I can reach is that this attitude is the result of a
misperception and misinformation, as well as the intervention ill-timed, under the circumstances - of such bodies as the

2279

all-powerful National Firearms Association, which went to
considerable expense to make its point of view known. Among
other things, it made the far-fetched suggestion that women
should be given weapons so that they could protect themselves
against potential criminal assaults. This was included in the
Montreal Assault Prevention Centre's brief to the Senate
committee. One could die laughing at such a suggestion if it were
not so sad. An attitude such as this ought to be enough to
discredit all groups that associate themselves with it.
In my opinion, this misconception and misinformation is what
lies behind nearly ail of the proposed amendments, whether they
relate to collectors' weapons, museums, regulatory powers,
penalties for non-compliance with the legislation, permission for
the provinces to adopt the regime established by Bill C-68, or the
aboriginal nations. In this address, I shall restrict myself to a
brief discussion of the latter, the aboriginal nations, focussing
more on the penalties provided for non-compliance with the
legislation.
As I said before in my first speech on the subject, when the bill
was introduced for second reading, I have the greatest respect,
admiration and esteem for aboriginal peoples, and I deplore the
fact that I know so littie about the way they live, think and work.
However, I hope to remedy that very shortly by visiting a
number of aboriginal communities, and I will ask my colleague
Senator St. Germain who is unfortunately absent right now, to
help me organize this trip. In return, I will set up some trips in
Quebec through ail the regions and to several urban centres,
where we will meet brothers and sisters, fathers and mothers of
the victims of the Polytechnique massacre. Maybe then, as a
former police officer, he will better understand why Quebecers so
wholeheartedly support Bill C-68.
I think aboriginal people, with their concern for protecting the
rights they have under the Charter, are acting well within the law.
However, although I am not in a position to establish the impact
of Bill C-68 on aboriginal rights, I believe that many of the
problems that were raised are connected more with the
implementation and administration of the bill than the bill itself.
The current constitutional agreement provides that the federal
government is responsible for penal justice. The legitimate
exercise of this power extends to measures to control the use and
possession of firearms. Aboriginai people would probably be the
first to admit that their communities are not immune to crime,
violence and accidental injuries caused by the use of firearms.
Considering the ease with which guns circulate in Canada and
the obvious ineffectiveness of the fragmented legislation that
exists in the United States, uniform controls are essential to
public safety. Bill C-68 will bring about a definite improvement
in the well-being of every person in this country, and in my
opinion, it provides for satisfactory mechanisms that also
guarantee the rights of aboriginal people. Other honourable
senators have discussed or will discuss this aspect in greater
detail.

As for the amendment with respect to penalties for violation of
the act, in my opinion it is more likely to protect criminals than
honest citizens - farmers or hunters - who own long guns and
fail to register them.

On the other hand, failure to obtain a licence is, in my opinion.
a more serious offence, for which adequate provision is made in
sections 91 and 92 of the Criminal Code. It is essential to be able
to lay criminal charges if a person fails to comply with these
provisions, even if it is a first offence.

To violate the clauses relating to licencing and registration in
Bill C-68 is considered a criminal offence. which was already the
case for any violation of the requirements for restricted firearms
in the legislation currently in effect. Considering the very real
problem of gun smuggling and the wrongful use of unlawfully
acquired firearms; the fact that some people have already stated
they intend to ignore the act; and taking into account the
discretionary powers already available to the police,
govemments and the courts to exercise leniency. it seems to us
that the penalties provided in Bill C-68 are entirely appropriate.
There are, of course, other solutions such as confiscating
firearms. but we believe it is important to maintain the option of
criminal proceedings.

When it is clearly established that a person deliberately tries to
get around the law, either because he does not approve of the
legislation or is involved in criminal activities, more stringent
sanctions are provided. Clause 92 provides for penalties when a
person knowingly fails to register a weapon or obtain a licence;
these penalties may be imposed if there is clear evidence of civil
disobedience or concealment of possession of a weapon.
However, the mandatory penalty under clause 92 applies only in
the case of a second conviction. Considering the serious nature of
trafficking in prohibited weapons, this is entirely justified.

Bill C-68 does not constitute an undue burden for gun owners,
and it protects their legitimate activities while ensuring that
public safety is not at risk. Although certain weapons
associations advocate breaking the law, as evidenced by the
Firearms Digest. we should not give in to this sort of threat any
more than we would to tax fraud or the contravention of laws on
drunk driving.
Clearly, when the law is inadvertently broken, there must be
room for leniency. The police already have discretion in such
circumstances. Thus, in the context of the present legislation. we
have to admit that we do not often hear about seniors being
arrested and charged for having failed to register their handguns.
The police would ask them instead to register them, or to turn
them in for destruction.
There are. nevertheless. a million restricted firearms in
Canada, and the Criminal Code provides penalties for those who
have failed to register such weapons. I defy anyone. however. to
give me examples of honest citizens being subject to severe
penalties for having broken this law. Accusations may certainly
be made in particular circumstances, for example, in the case of a
weapon that is improperly used or unsafely stored. We should
point out that legal action for possession of unregistered
handguns is for the most part accompanied by other charges.
such as armed robbery. Similarly, criminal proceedings relating
to matters of storage are rare, except where death or injury is
involved. Generally speaking, the police will simply ask the
owner to correct the situation. There is nothing to indicate that
they will behave differently once the provisions in Bill C-68 on
registration and licencing apply.
This is why I continue to believe that. thanks to the
discretionary powers of the police, the administration and the
courts, honest citizens run little risk of being accused of
committing a criminal act in failing to register their long gun.
Furthermore. since clause 112 provides for a lesser charge in the
case of a first offence. it therefore gives another option to police
still wanting to lay a charge in a case that is not serious.

1Senaior

Roux 1

Make no mistake: So-called honest citizens who do not pay
their taxes can become criminals. just like those who receive
welfare or unemployment insurance benefits and fail to declare
their income. Why should it be otherwise for so-called honest
citizens who own firearms? If they do not want to become
criminals, all they have to do is obey the law, like any other
Canadian.
The legislation must have enough teeth to have an impact on
the worst offenders, while allowing for sufficient flexibility in
dealing with those who break the law through ignorance or pure
negligence.
The proposed amendment goes well beyond that. It not only
abolishes the offence of failing to register a long gun. it also
abolishes the mandatory penalty lor failing to register prohibited
or restricted weapons. The majority of prohibited or restricted
weapons are handguns or automatic weapons, so why get rid of
minimum sentences for possession of non-registered handguns or
automatic weapons when such weapons are largely used to
commit crimes?
Honourable senators, it is our duty to make improvements in
the bills entrusted to us after they are passed by the House of
Commons. In the case of concern to us here, this last amendment,
like al] the others recommended by the majority report from the
Senate Standing Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs,
does nothing to improve Bill C-68, calling for more severe
controls over firearm possession and use. When the time comes
for us to vote to adopt or reject this report, when we have to
endorse or reject the proposed amendments, I implore you,
honourable senators, to leave aside any partisan spirit, to think of
making this a fnal tribute to the fourteen women who fell victim
to a mad killer at the Ecole polytechnique de Montréal on
December 6. 1989, and to the 1.400 other victims who are shot to
death each year in Canada. I implore you to think of their right to
live in peace and happiness. I implore you to pass Bill C-68
without further delay, as it stands. and to reject the proposed
amendments. We owe as much to Canada. which is still one of
the best countries of the world in which to live.

November 21, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

[English]
S(1610)

Hon. Donald H. Oliver: Honourable senators, I rise today to
speak to Bill C-68 and the amendments proposed to this bill by
my colleagues. Before I deal with the merits of the legislation
before us, I want to make it clear that I support controls on the
use of firearms. As with all of us in this chamber, I oppose the
use of firearms by criminals, and support measures which
effectively keep guns out of the hands of criminals.
As with al] law-abiding Canadians, I deplore the acts of
violence perpetrated by Valery Fabrikant at Concordia
University, and by Marc Lépine at Ecole polytechnique. Those
who had contributed so much to society, those who had so much
hope for the future, had their lives ended prematurely. I grieve
for them and for their survivors.
Honourable senators, I am also acutely aware of the violence
perpetrated against both women and children by those who come
into possession of deadly weapons. As a former member of the
Board of Directors, and indeed as the President of the Halifax
Children's Aid Society, I experienced the pain and suffering
brought to families through abuse.
I support those parts of this bill which are designed to
counteract smuggling of firearms, and perhaps the government
could give thought to making them even tougher. As well, I
endorse those clauses which increase the punishment for crimes
committed with firearms. However, I cannot support the other
main thrust of the bill, and that is to impose on Canadians a
completely unnecessary gun registration system.
Why is such a system unnecessary? Canada already has
firearms laws that are among the toughest in the world. This is
what you have to do now in order to own a firearm in Canada:
take an optional federal course and a mandatory test to qualify
for a firearms acquisition certificate, or FAC; submit to a
thorough police examination of your social, employment and
psychological history when you apply for the FAC; go through
an interview process with police and provide solid references;
wait a mandatory 28 days before your FAC is approved and
issued with a photograph.
If you want to hunt, you must: take a separate mandatory
hunting course, which also covers firearms handling and safety;
submit to another provincial written and practical test on firearms
handling; abide by strict federal laws that govern dozens of
firearms handling and safety situations. They include: storing
firearms and ammunition separately under lock and key; rigid
transportation standards, and tough guidelines for using firearms.
By adding to these criteria, the bill will not accomplish the
goals set for it by the Minister of Justice.

Honourable senators, Minister Rock says:
...such a registration system can contribute to greater public
welfare without imposing excessive constraints on hunters,
farmers and target shooters.
I say, nonsense! The lowest cost estimate that I have seen
anywhere for this registration system is $100 million. Many
people say it is higher. All farmers, hunters and target shooters
who own guns must register them under the proposed law. You
and I know that these are not guns used by criminals, and we are
not likely to run into many criminals in the local gun registration
line.
Mr. Rock says:
...registration will encourage compliance with safe storage
requirements.
Honourable senators, my further question to that is: how? We
are required already by law to safely store them. Minister Rock
claims that it will better prepare police who are answering a
distress call, since they will know if a gun is in that particular
house. Does this mean that police answering these calls will
come with their guns drawn? I hope not. This could lead to more
violence.
Honourable senators, the minister cites statistics which gun
registration in no way will address:
One woman every six days is shot to death...
1,100 Canadians commit suicide with a firearm each year.
0(1620)

As deplorable as these statistics may be, Mr. Rock's registration
system will not save any of these people.
I received a fax this morning from the Nova Scotia Wildlife
Federation dated November 21 and signed by a Mr. Tony
Rodgers, Executive Director. He says, among other things:
Our debate is at an end, the ball is now in your court.
After all the personal examination you have given this bill,
I'm sure you understand what a poor piece of legislation it
is. This bill is riddled with excessive powers for any
Minister of Justice, spiked with reverse onus provisions,
illegal search and seizure and it will bring negative actions
against law abiding citizens in a manner that could be
paralleled to the illegal imprisonment of Japanese
Canadians during the Second World War. It will do nothing
to reduce crime. This proposed law is nothing more than
smoke and mirrors.

There are many other main arguments against the bill, and
some of them can be enumerated as follows:

bill, to delay implementation. This will allow them time to
examine the costs, workability, and efficiency of the legislation.

First, the registration system envisaged is expensive. Some
estimates for implementation range up to $500 million.

Regulations made pursuant to this act should follow the same
procedure as most other regulations. They should be laid before
each house of Parliament for at least 30 sitting days before the
implementation date. This will allow public inquiries to be held
when appropriate.

Second, the system will divert scarce manpower and money
away from crime prevention and crime solving. Policemen will
be behind desks, not on the streets.
Third. the system will be run by the cash-strapped provinces
which will be forced to cut other programs in order to install a
registration system.
Fourth, the system is virtually unenforceable. It would require
a nationwide house-to-house search to see if it was being obeyed.
Fifth, the registration system per se will do nothing to keep
guns out of the hands of criminals or to reduce domestic
violence.
Sixth, gun registration is not like vehicle registration, because
if a gun is not registered, criminal penalties result.
Seventh, the parts of the registration system affecting Canada's
aboriginal people may violate their constitutionally guaranteed
treaty rights to hunt for food. It bas been argued that any
interference with this right makes certain aspects of the bill
unconstitutional, if not the whole bill.
Eighth, the bill purports to regulate shooting clubs, firearms
ranges, and gun shows. These are clearly matters which should
fall within provincial jurisdiction and therefore beyond the
jurisdiction of the federal parliament.
Ninth, section 103 of the Criminal Code proposed by Bill C-68
would permit the federal government to initiate and conduct
prosecutions for a Criminal Code offence. Traditionally, the
federal government's power to prosecute offences has been
placed in statutes separate from the Criminal Code. In this
instance, since we are dealing with import/export offences, such
offences should be part of the Customs and Excise Act, otherwise
there could be a federal invasion of the provinces' administration
of justice powers.
These are the reasons I oppose this bill and support the
amendments introduced by the Honourable Senator Ghitter.

I endorse the amendment which would decriminalize the
offence of failure to register a firearm. It is unreasonable to
threaten law-abiding citizens with criminal sanctions over the
mere failure to register a firearm.
Along the same lines, the amendments proposed to
clause 92(3) should be supported. This provision would punish a
person who knowingly possesses an unlicensed, prohibited, or
restricted weapon for a minimum sentence of one year on the
second offence, and two years less a day for a third offence.
These sentences take away from the discretion which a court
should have to impose an appropriate sentence.
Finally, the Canadian Museum Association expressed strong
concerns about the costs that the statute would impose on
museums. It is estimated that over $4 million will be required
from museums to meet the registration aspects of this bill. I
support the amendment to exempt museums from licensing
changes under the bill.
Honourable senators, I support the amendments proposed, and
I urge all honourable senators to support them, as they will make
Bill C-68 a more acceptable piece of legislation.
Hon. Eymard G. Corbin: If the honourable senator would
allow me, I should like to put a question to him.
The honourable senator raised the matter of a letter he
received from, I would not say a constituent, but somebody from
his own bailiwick.
In my view, the letter appears to contain some excessive and
unfounded language. Has the honourable senator contacted this
person to lay out the facts as the bill recounts them? Does he
intend to do so? Is he accepting at face value everything in that
letter?

I endorse the motion passed by the Standing Senate
Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs requesting the
Minister of Justice to consult with the aboriginal communities of
Canada. Such consultation should focus on whether the
constitutional requirements, as set out in varions agreements with
the Yukon First Nations and the Cree people, are affected by the
provisions of the bill.

Senator Oliver: I thank the honourable senator for his
question. I received this letter by fax this morning. It is from the
Executive Director of the Nova Scotia Wildlife Federation, a
well-known federation in the province of Nova Scotia. It was
sent by Mr. Tony Rodgers, who is known to me. He has written
to me on several other occasions about this particular piece of
legislation, and I have responded. He must have read in the
newspapers that this bill would be voted on some time soon, and
be wanted to make sure that I knew his position.

I support the amendment that would allow provinces and
territories, which are responsible for the administration of this

I have not responded to this particular fax that I received this
morning.

[ Senatoi Oliver

I

November 21, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

Hon. Paul Lucier: Honourable senators, when I spoke on
second reading of Bill C-68 in this chamber on June 20, 1995,
my first comment was that I would not support or vote in favour
of Bill C-68 as presently written.
My main, stated objection to Bill C-68 was, and continues to
be, registration of rifles and shotguns, and the negative effect
such legislation would have on Canadians in general and
northerners in particular.
Let me be clear, honourable senators: I understand and respect
people who support Bill C-68. As previously stated, I support a
great majority of the proposed legislation contained in Bill C-68.
Responsible gun owners everywhere support the provisions of
Bill C-68 which deal harshly with criminals who commit serious
offences with guns, and they demand enforcement of mandatory
prison terms for offenders who commit serious crimes with guns.
They also demand that law-abiding citizens who do not
commit crimes with guns and who obey the law not be treated as
criminals and not have their rights and freedoms trampled by a
clause in Bill C-68 that is virtually unenforceable, unworkable,
very expensive and, unfortunately, will not accomplish any of the
goals claimed by those who support the legislation.
Suggestions that those who oppose Bill C-68 are in any way
less compassionate of the need to protect abused women and
children than anyone else are false, and, quite frankly, they do
not constitute an honest argument.
Honourable senators, we, as members of Parliament, must
continue to do whatever is necessary to prevent future abuse of
women and children. Registration of shotguns and rifles will not
accomplish this goal, but it will make life extremely difficult for
a very large number of Canadians, particularly aboriginal people.
I wish to quote from a letter dated November 8, 1995 from
Mr. Phil Fontaine, the Grand Chief of the Assembly of Manitoba
Chiefs, as follows:
There is no justification for imposing gun controls on our
people. The regulatory scheme to be put into effect impacts
disproportionately heavily on us. Whatever may be its effect
on other Canadians, for us it is the death knell of our
traditional rights and our current economic practices. And
all of that is happening without there having been any, let
alone adequate, consultation with our people.
We urge you to stop this travesty in its tracks.
During the Whitehorse hearings, the Senate panel heard from
Kaska Elder Charlie Dick, who bas been providing food for his
family and himself since he was a child. When this legislation is
put into effect, that will be very difficult, if not impossible, to
comply with for people like Mr. Dick, then their fears become
very real. As stated very clearly by Mr. Dick, his gun is used to
provide food for the family, not to harm anyone. Why the sudden
urge to register his firearm?

0

2283

(163o)

Honourable senators, the amendments proposed by the Legal
and Constitutional Affairs Committee have come as a shock to
me. We have been dealing with registration of rifles and shotguns
for quite some time now, and never once have I spoken to, or
heard from, a gun owner who said, "I am opposed to registration
but will accept it if the implementation date is 10 years instead of
eight." In my opinion that amendment is a complete
abandonment of those who opposed registration of long guns.
Honourable senators opposite have heard me state publicly in
Whitehorse that I would support an amendment that would
remove registration of long guns from Bill C-68. This
amendment does no such thing. Therefore, I will not be able to
support the motion for acceptance of this report. Yukoners and
other Canadians who were hoping to see a removal of
registration from Bill C-68 will be bitterly disappointed with the
proposed amendment.
Senator Ghitter, in reply to my question yesterday, said Yukon
Minister of Justice Doug Phillips agreed with the amendment. I
accept what Senator Ghitter bas said, although I was very
surprised to hear that my friend Mr. Phillips had changed his
position. I will not change mine.
In concluding my remarks, may I once again thank senators
who took the time to visit the Yukon to allow people to express
their views. Some people were for Bill C-68; many were
opposed. However, as I have said in this chamber for the past
20 years, Canadians not living in this area should be heard by
members of the Senate. I attended meetings in Vancouver and
Whitehorse and have heard from people in Alberta. They were
very grateful for the opportunity to be heard. I know it is not easy
or cheap to hold hearings away from Ottawa, but it is the proper
thing to do. I thank Senator Ghitter and ail the senators who
participated. I encourage the Senate to hold more hearings away
from Ottawa.
Hon. Gerry St. Germain: Honourable senators, I have a
question for the honourable senator. I agree that there should be
an amendment to this legislation excluding long guns by way of
hunting rifles and shotguns commonly used for the purpose of
hunting and sporting practices. However, if the honourable
senator feels that way, why then does he not move an amendment
in this house? I am prepared to stand and support the honourable
senator, because I honestly think that this bill will adversely
affect the people in the region that he represents. Anything we
can do to help the aboriginal peoples, which the honourable
senator could support, should be done.
I am appreciative of the fact that the honourable senator took
time to be with us. I am sure that if I had not conducted the
hearings, he would have done so. I feel that it is so important that
the honourable senator deal with this matter that I should like to
see him introduce an amendment that would resolve the situation
in the way in which he feels it should be resolved. Could I hear
the honourable senator's comments on that suggestion, please?

Senator Lucier: Honourable senators, I thank Senator
St. Germain, as I appreciated his input in the Yukon.

procedures. In short, Bill C-68 does exactly those things that the
Senate committee urged the government to do.

I was very surprised to hear Senator Oliver, for whom I have
great respect, speak so clearly and so strongly against registration
and then end by saying that he will support the amendments that
will bring registration into law. You do it two years later but you
are doing it. That is the part that I find totally unacceptable. In
answer to Senator St. Germain's question, his suggestion is
exactly what we plan to do tomorrow.

I have not changed my mind on this issue since the drafting of
that letter. As Margaret Thatcher put it, "Some ladies are not for
turning. Some gentlemen are very wet." I believe that the intent
of the policy of that government was right then, and that the
logical extension, Bill C-68. is right now. Of course, some
senators will say that it is not the principle of the bill that is at
stake but that the legislation is flawed.

Hon. Mira Spivak: Honourable senators, for approximately
60 years, I believe, Canadians have been required by law to
register handguns. Since 1932, they have complied. There are
one million handguns in Canada now registered to police, target
shooters and gun collectors. Occasionally, handguns also find
their way into the wrong hands. Still. they account for only
21 per cent of all criminal use of firearms. Rifles and shotguns,
on the other hand, account for almost half of all criminally used
firearms in this nation. After 60 years of politically acceptable
and widely accepted registration of one type of firearm. we are
now engaged in a debate on whether several million more long
guns should also be registered. That is the fundamental question
which has sparked most of the opposition, as Senator Lucier has

The issue before us, then, is the amendments presented by the
Standing Senate Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs.
I cannot support these amendments, simply because I do not
believe they improve the bill.
I want to outline the reasons why I do not think those
amendments improve the legislation we have before us. First. I
want to deal with the amendment that attempts to address a most
important issue for all of us: The concerns expressed by
aboriginal groups who fear that their treaty and aboriginal rights.
guaranteed under section 35 of the Constitution, would be
affected.

so aptly put it.

Where you stand on this question depends upon where you sit.
Approximately four years ago, I sat on the Senate committee that
examined Bill C-17, the gun control legislation which the
government of the Right Honourable Brian Mulroney and his
justice minister, the Right Honourable Kim Campbell, presented
to Parliament in 1991. At that time, Parliament listened to the
majority of Canadians who called for strong gun control. The
Senate quickly passed Bill C-17, which spent only three days in
committee.

Bill C-68 is in keeping with the fundamental principles found
in the law enacted by the Mulroney govemment. In fact, some of
the critics of Bill C-68 are perhaps unknowingly attacking
provisions that were implemented by that and previous
legislation, for example, firearms acquisition safety courses and
order-in-council powers. Furthermore, Bill C-68 does precisely
what the standing Senate committee urged the government to do
in 1991 in addressing the deficiencies contained in Bill C-17.
Approximately four years ago, the committee listened to
witnesses but did not propose amendments or delay the bill's
passage, maybe because the majority in the House of Commons
and the Senate was of the same political stripe. Instead, it wrote
a letter to Justice Minister Campbell on December 12, 1991,
urging her:
...to take the following steps towards ensuring that the use
of firearms in Canada is as safe as possible, and that no
further lives are unnecessarily lost.
Specifically, the letter asked for universal firearms registration,
for better control over safe storage of guns and for better training

The amendment would require "full and considered
consultations" with aboriginal peoples before the government
could proclaim any section of the act or regulations that would
"abrogate or derogate." Leaving aside the issue of whether the
minister has or has not fully consulted with aboriginal
communities; leaving aside the non-derogation clause in the bill
reaffirming section 35 of the Constitution, making it clear that
there is no government intention to breach any rights under
section 35; paying attention to what Professor Hutchinson has
stated before the Legal and Constitutional Affairs Committee namely, that it is the courts who must decide whether aboriginal
rights have been infringed upon, and, in so doing, they will not
have recourse to any derogation clauses but will look for
evidence of what has actually been done - does this amendment
protect aboriginal rights more strongly than would the bill left
unamended? The answer is clearly in the negative.
0(16,41)

If you imagine that the amendment has passed and the bill bas
passed, what then? The amendment attempts to put a
pre-condition on the exercise of power by the Governor in
Council to bring the bill into force. If the minister or the
Governor in Council feels that the pre-condition bas been
satisfied, they would presumably simply bring the bill into force.
The question of whether the pre-condition had been satisfied
would end up before the court. Therefore, this amendment is
empty and powerless to protect aboriginal rights any better or
any more strongly than they are already protected under
section 35 of the Constitution and the provisions in the act to
give that effect.

November 21, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

The charge that the bill itself is unconstitutional has certainly
been laid in many quarters. I believe Senator Ghitter mentioned it
quite categorically several times in his speech. Yet, Professor
Hutchinson, the Associate Dean of Osgoode Hall. whom he did
not quote. believes that it is not quite as simple as that since there
is little Supreme Court guidance on the matter, and there are
different views about the effect of the Constitution on aboriginal
rights. However. he believes that, given the provisions in
clause 117(u) of the bill, which gives the power to introduce
special regulations in dealing with aboriginal people in Canada.
and given the existing regulations in place, such as the
requirement of firearms acquisition certificates which has been in
place for 20 years without court challenge, the court would not
find this legislation unconstitutional.
Professor Hogg, the eminent constitutional scholar, testified
that the solution lies in the direction of relieving aboriginal
people from paying fees and providing for the appointment of an
aboriginal officer. In other words, it should be donc in the
regulations. Professor Hutchinson reiterated this point when he
said:
On the face of the legislation, it would seem to be on the
limits of acceptability - the manner of administration will
decide which way it goes.
Professor Quigley of the University of Saskatchewan states
unequivocally:
Regulations have the force of law in just the same way as
statute.
He went on to state:
In my legal opinion, aboriginal rights are not infringed by
the gun registration scheme.
He states that, if we consider the Sparrow case:
Before you breach an aboriginal right you must find that the
provision in question is unreasonable, imposes undue
hardship or denies the aboriginal people the preferred means
of exercising their right. If you test the gun registration
scheme against that in my opinion there is not violation.
Professor Quigley goes on to make another telling point on the
issue of constitutionality. He reminds us that when statutes or
regulations are attacked under the legislation, the court typically
endeavours to save as much of the legislation as it can, and to
strike down only the offending parts. Therefore, to strike down
the fee, for example, would not necessarily jeopardize the entire
registration scheme.
As I understand it, the testimony given before the committee
seemed to focus the constitutional argument along these lines:
Aboriginal peoples have a constitutional right to own and use

2285

guns, which non-aboriginal peoples do not. The government can
regulate in this area, but it must do so according to the high
standards set in Sparrow. Aboriginal rights are taken to be
protected unless the government can show that they have acted
with considerable trust, that they have consulted, and that the
reason for regulation is a substantial and compelling good.
To summarize this very important issue, this amendment on
the aboriginal rights question has no substantive impact on their
protection. It will not satisfy the legitimate concerns of the
aboriginal peoples, nor can the Senate be justified, based on
expert testimony, in amending Bill C-68 on constitutional
grounds.
A second key amendment concems delayed implementation of
the registration scheme by provinces and territories who oppose
it. To begin with, the Legal and Constitutional Affairs Committee
was given an opinion that an opting-out scheme would be
unconstitutional. This variation on implementation in some
provinces and territories which are opposed would make a
national program unworkable. Those intent on criminal activity
will certainly seek out guns in regions where guns are not
registered. Further, it would not be possible to assess the true
costs and effectiveness of the legislation, as the attorneys general
of the provinces would like, if registration is not in place, say,
between British Columbia and Quebec.
If registration is not universal, then law-abiding gun owners
will be penalized in other ways. A gun owner in Manitoba, for
example, could not take his unregistered gun across the border to
hunt in the U.S. or to take part in a target shooting event. A gun
collector in Alberta could not sell his long gun to a collector in
British Columbia. Gun manufacturers in Scarborough and
Peterborough could not continue to export their products.
It has also been suggested that businesses in provinces where
registration is not in effect could not continue to import guns
from the U.S. or elsewhere. These are not measures for
law-abiding gun owners. All this, as has been pointed out, is to
postpone the legislation from 2003 to 2005.
That brings me to a matter that has been called
"decriminalization." In this regard, one amendment would
remove from the Criminal Code the offence of possessing an
unregistered firearm. The other would eliminate minimum
sentences imposed for a second or third conviction.
Without amendment, the bill allows police and Crown
prosecutors to use their judgment and distinguish law-abiding
gun owners from others clearly engaged in crime. Police will
charge some legitimate gun owners who fail to register their
guns, perhaps after giving them a warning and time to comply
with the law. They will charge them with the summary offence
under the proposed Firearms Act that this bill allows. Despite
what gun owners in the west have been told, on conviction, he or
she will not have a criminal record.

Police also need the power to charge members of organized
crime, gun smugglers caught with a large number of unregistered
guns, or someone about to commit a robbery. with a criminal
offence. If we remove sections 91 and 92 from the Criminal
Code, as the amendments suggest, we rob them of that power. In
the guise of decriminalizing the bill for ordinary citizens. we
decriminalize criminals.
The one-year minimum sentence for a second conviction under
section 92 of the Criminal Code also clearly applies to criminals.
not to ordinary citizens who fail to register their guns. It would
not cause to be jailed a gun owner who had failed to register and
had been found guilty of a summary offence under the proposed
Firearms Act. It would not apply to a gun owner who had defied
the law and was charged again under section 91 of the code. It
would apply only to criminals already convicted of a serious
offence under section 92.
For criminals. a much stiffer. four-year minimum sentence for
using a gun in 10 serious crimes is provided for in this bill. The
amendment would not change that. However, it takes away the
minimum sentence for criminals who acquire and supply
unregistered guns, and who have been convicted at least once.
The minimum sentence tells the courts that Parliament believes
gun possession for underground trafficking, or motorcycle gang
wars, or organized crime is a serious matter. That message should
stand.
I want to make a couple of comments before concluding. First,
on the issue of regional representation, it is not accurate to
characterize the West as a region entirely opposed to this
legislation. Let me name just a few of the groups in Manitoba,
which fully endorse Bill C-68. They are the Brandon Police
Service: the Children's Home of Winnipeg: the John Howard
Society of Manitoba: the Manitoba Action Committee on the
Status of Women: the Manitoba Child Care Association; the
Manitoba Teacher's Society: the Manitoba Police Association;
the Portage Women's Shelter: the Winnipeg Health Department:
the Winnipeg Municipal Council: and the Winnipeg Police
Service.
The Manitoba Action Committee on the Status of Women cites
statistics that show Manitoba has the highest annual average
number and rate of hospitalization from firearm injuries of any
province. The same organization has called attention to the role
firearms play in domestic violence and violence against women.
In Winnipeg, in a six-month period. 150 firearms were stolen in
90 break-ins, mostly by young offenders. All across the country,
thousands of organizations and virtually every police association.
except Saskatchewan's. support the legislation.
The Chair of the Law and Amendments Committee of the
Canadian Police Association, who testified before the committee
in the Senate, had this to say:
It is the view of the Canadian Association of Chiefs of
Police that gun control generally, and Bill C-68 in particular,
is a positive. preventive. and powerlul piece of legislation

[ Senator Spi

k

I

which will reduce crime, save lives, and significantly assist
in the work of police officers.
In a letter of November 17 to the Leader of the Opposition, the
Canadian Association of Police categorically stated that they
support Bill C-68 without amendment.
Your Honour, may I have just a few more minutes?
0

(l61(5o

The Hon. the Speaker pro tempore: The rules require that I
point out that the honourable senator's time has expired.
Is there leave for her to continue?

Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Senator Spivak: Thank you, honourable senators.
The police association stated in its testimony that it had
canvassed its members extensively. Many people say their view
does not apply to the ordinary cop on the beat. Not a single
member among the rank and file of police officers called me to
suggest opposition to the bill. I am sure my friends here would
have received such calls had that sentiment existed.
That brings me to the subject of national unity, a subject on
which Senator Ghitter waxed eloquent yesterday. I fully agree
with Senator Ghitter that that should be our primary
preoccupation in these parlous times. but with regard to this bill.
it is no surprise that I view the matter slightly differently. It
seems to me that national unity would be well served if we were
to concentrate on the problems which this bill is attempting to
address: issues of public health, safety, security in our cities,
towns and rural areas, crime prevention and violence.
We need to recognize that the provisions of this bill with
regard to registration constitute a difference of degree, not of
kind, since we have had licensing and registration in Canada for
many years. This should not be used as a bargaining tool in the
debate on national unity, nor should the criminal law power be
involved in the demands for devolution on the part of the
provinces - an insatiable demand, I might add. The enthusiasm
of provincial premiers to vest more power in themselves is
universal and profound.
Andrew Coyne coined a new term over the weekend.
'unapologetic federalism," which carries with it the notion that
the federal government should perform a vital, integrative role in
the nation's affairs while allowing the provinces to exercise their
traditional powers.
The Senate's role is to assess legislation and also to pass good
legislation. That is the target here. The role of the Senate is not
simply to bounce the bill back to the House so that they can
simply return it to us unchanged, or not at all. In the immortal
words of Izzy Asper. the Senate is not "chopped liver." The
Senate has a role and a responsibility in Parliament.

November 21, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

[Translation]

Honourable senators, as the tragic date of December 6
approaches, we must remember the 14 innocent young women
who left us on that day. Their legacy should be a nation that has
taken itself in hand.
[English]

Hon. Terry Stratton: Honourable senators, I have a question
on behalf of the Swampy Cree Tribal Council from in and around
The Pas. They represent 10,000 folks up there. They have stated
quite clearly that they oppose Bill C-68 and any regulations that
are to be defined under that act at a later time. They say this is
just another example of the Government of Canada doing
something to native people instead of doing what the First
Nations governments want. It is now time to change all that.
How does the honourable senator respond to that comment?
These people are clearly against the bill because they have not
been consulted.
Senator Spivak: From what I have read of the testimony - I
did not go everywhere that other senators went; I was at only one
meeting in Winnipeg - it seems to me that what the aboriginal
peoples want is to be exempt from this legislation.
Senator Stratton: They want to be consulted.
Senator Spivak: Perhaps some of them wish to be exempted.
I am sure all of them wish to be consulted. If the minister bas not
consulted - and apparently, from what I gathered in committee,
he has time to consult - the regulations will not be finally
established until 2003. He said in his appearance before us that
no rights -

Senator Watt: But that is after the fact.
Senator Spivak: Apparently, regulations in law are the same
in terms of constitutional and legal value. That is what we have
been told. I am not a lawyer. You are the lawyer, and I value your
opinion.
However, if they are not suspended - and I asked the minister
that question deliberately for that reason - then does the
minister not have from now until 2003 to get it right? If he does
not get it right, since there is not all that much jurisprudence on
Sparrow, is it not up to the courts? Sparrow is a court decision.
I see Senator Andreychuk wincing. Put me right, please. That
is my answer to you.
Hon. Lorna Milne: Honourable senators, the honourable
senator is a pretty hard act to follow.
I must admit that I am a bit over-awed and a bit nervous, for I
had really intended to postpone speaking in this historic house
until I knew something more about its traditions and the
opportunities that it can offer for bettering life for Canadians.
However, I really cannot let pass this report from the Standing
Senate Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs without

2287

imploring my honourable colleagues to defeat these amendments
and to pass Bill C-68 as it was sent to us.
Senator St. Germain: On a point of order, is the debate
continuing? I have a question for Senator Spivak.
The Hon. the Speaker pro tempore: I must recognize the
honourable senator.
Senator St. Germain: I am being denied my question.
Some Hon. Senators: Oh, oh!
The Hon. the Speaker pro tempore: Order, please.
I have recognized Honourable Senator Milne.
Senator St. Germain: I yield to the honourable senator.
The Hon. the Speaker pro tempore: I recognized the
Honourable Senator Milne to make a speech. I did not hear the
Honourable Senator St. Germain say he wished to ask a question.
I saw him stand up. I interpreted that as his wish to participate in
the debate. The traditional custom is that one goes from right to
left, alternating. For that reason, I recognized the Honourable
Senator Milne, thinking that the Honourable Senator St. Germain
wished to speak in the debate, and not being aware that he
wished to ask a question.
Senator Milne?
Senator Milne: Thank you, honourable senators.
I freely admit that my original reasons for supporting gun
control were very emotional reasons. It is now 20 years and six
months almost to the very day since my husband reported in the
other place on May 28, 1975, that there had been a horrific
incident in the Brampton Centennial High School. He reported,
and I will quote from Hansard of that day:
Mr. Speaker, it is with a great deal of grief and shock that
I rise to advise the House that about an hour ago there was a
major shooting in the town of Brampton I still cannot talk about it. I apologize.
- as a result of which a high school teacher and a student
were murdered and possibly as many as thirteen
- other students injured by the same gunfire. I should like
to ask the Solicitor General if he would pledge his efforts to
have the

-

RCMP
- cooperate in any way they can with the local police
relative to the gun issue and perhaps even question whether
the government will seriously review gun legislation in
Canada?

John Slinger, the l7-year-old who was murdered that day. was
one of our son's best friends. As they were walking down the hall
to go to their next class of '*phys.ed.." John decided to use a
washroom 111 the hallway while our son went on to the change
rooms. Because of that innocent choice. one young man died and
one young man lived.
Honourable senators, some of you will remember that day. for
the sheer hon-or and shock that swept across Canada led directly
to the passage of Bill C-51 in 1978. Many of the honourable
senators opposite were deeply involved. as Senator Spivak was.
with the passage of Bill C-17 by the last government in 1991.
Although that day in May 20 years ago was s0 personally
traumatic, as you can tell by the tremor in my voice. 1 do not
want te Icave the members of this house with the impression that
my emotions are still running away with my reason.
My friends. those two buis only
our police forces the tools that they
to deal with the domestic violence
safety -goals to, which 1 know we
0

began the process of giving
need to reduce street crime;
and to increase community
are aIl committed.

1700()

Although 1 have strong reservations about many of the
proposed amendments to tbis bill that are included in the
committee's report, 1 will confine my remarks to two speciflc
f'eatures of' these amendmcnts. The first is the decriminalization
of the bill which is deali wilh in proposed amendments numbers
one. two. six. seven, nine and ten. which remove aIl long gun
possession offences from the Criminal Code.
As it stands. honourable senators. Bill C-68 provides l'or a
first-time summary conviction offence which is aimied ai
first-time otfenders who may have failed to register their long
guns for some reason or another. including ignorance of the law.
This was developed with input from many groups to address
truly inadvertent factual situations. However. the bill also ensures
that more serious second and repeat offences wouîd be indictable
under the Criminal Code. This provision was very carefully
tailored so as not to trivialize the conduct of people who act in
deliberate and repeated defiance of the law - in other words.
deliberate criminals. Removing this provision eliminates any
deterrent factor for not obeying the law; in fact, it trivializes the
entire bill.
What etfect wouîd this amendment have on the following
situations? For example, let us assume that a stash of long guns is
discovered on the premises of' one of these infamous motorcycle
gangs whose members are suspected of selling sawed-off
shotguns. The amendments would mean that these people could
only be charged with a minor summary Firearms Act offence.
What if tire police stopped someone with a long gun who
appeared to be on their way* to commit a convenience store

[senalori lic 1

robbery? Again. this would lead only to a tap on the wrist for the
potential robber.
The bill as it stands - the unamended bill - seems to strike a
good balance between protecting those who inadvertently fail or
forget to register their long guns, and those who fail to register
because of a serious criminal intent.
Honourable senators, one stîould cuîîsidcî that the justice
system is not a cold. calculating computer. As my friend Senator
Roux pointed out. police and prosecutors have discretion. Lt
seems that critics of the bill have no faith in our system. 1 differ
with that assessment. 1 believe that we can place our trust in the
hands of the police and Crown prosecutors not to prosecute when
there is a clear case of inadvertent omission. The objective of our
justice system is to foster compliance. not to look for
opportunities to filI our jails.
A person who reaches the stage where minimum sentences
will apply is a person who has ignored numnerous warnings from
authorities and has been charged and convicted summarily of
retusing to register a firearm. If such a person stîll retused to
comply. he or she would mereîy be showing wilful disregard for
the law. Such contempt f'or our system of justice should be
treated harshly.
Honourable senators, 1 recaîl in committee the point was made
several times that other jurisdlictions with universal registration
have seen only about a 60-per-cent compliance. This point was
made to suggest that no system can gather sufticient data to make
a registry useful to the police. Cîearly. that fact really
demonstrates the need f'or the option of resorting [o criminal
sanction in order to correct this non-compliance. and give the
system some teeth.
As well. honourable senators. the amendnient to the
transitional provisions of the bill is .structured in such a way. by
deeming people to have licences and registration certificates by
at Ieast January 1, 2001 and January 1. 2003 respectively or such
other later date as is prescribed, that licensing and registration of
long guns need neyer come into, force. Passing these amendments
would compîetely gut the registration aspects ot this bill. and for
this reason I strongly oppose these amendments. I urge
honourable senators to oppose them as weII.
I also wish to touch on the powers of the Governor in Council
because there was some reference in committee 10 secret
proceedings by government which wouîd somehow make people
criminaîs without their knowledge. Aîthough regulatory powers
are not common in the Criminal Code. they do exist. In fact. the
current Criminal Code provides that the Governor in Council
may designate a type of firearm as a restricted or prohibited
firearni by way of regulation. What happens is that these
regulations come into force. Parliament may then examine them

November 21, 1995

November21,
1995SENATE
DEBATES

if it wishes. This regime was created in 1968 and confirmed and
expanded by Justice Minister Campbeli's Bill C-17. If a weapon
were designated "restricted" or -prohibited" under the existing
legisiation and a person failed to register it, surrender it or
grandfather it, under our present iaw, they would already be
guilty of a criminai offence. This is the normal regulatory
process and it is aiready law.
For everytbing except the definition of restricted and
prohibited weapons, the bill as proposed by the minister wouid
delay implementation of any regulation relating to gun control by
at ieast 30 sitting days or, as you know, a number of months. 1
believe the minister reaiiy deserves to be appiauded for
advancing such a new and open process. What is new in this
proposed legisiation is that Parliament wili have to give a fuil
airing of ail these regulatory aspects of the gun control system
before the regulations can be enacted, with the exception of the
designation of restricted and prohibited weapons. These
restriction and prohibition orders currentiy faîl into the category
of regulations that do not require advance parliamentary review
before coming into force. Their status is flot changed by the bill.
The amendments proposed by the committee seek to place
these prohibition and restriction orders also in the ciass of
regulation that requires 30 sitting days of review before
impiementation is possible. Creating such a delay would be
inappropriate in this instance as the minister reaiiy needs to be
able to continue to deai swiftiy with any sudden developments in
the weapons market to keep Canada free of these new and more
lethal weapons.
Honourable senators, just so no one thinks this whoie approach
to regulation is new, 1 can provide other examples of this kind of
regulation. The Narcotics Control Act allows the Governor in
Council to designate certain substances as "controlled"
substances for the purposes of the act. The act empowers the
govemnment to control dangerous drugs, in a general sense, but it
is up to the Governor in Council to decide what specific
substances constitute dangerous drugs. Other exampies of such
federal acts are the Hazardous Products Act, the Food and Drugs
Act and the Explosives Act. This is nothing new.
Second, I shouid like to speak to amendment number 14,
which would allow provinces and territories to delay
implementation of this act - in effect, to opt out for up to
10 years. I want to reinforce what Senator Spivak said because,
in my opinion, this is potentially one of the most dangerous
provisions of ai the proposed amendments. 1 believe it is illegai
as weii as unconstitutional, for it would create two different
Criminal Code regimes in Canada which would be operating at
the samne time, an almost impossible administrative nightmare,
flot only for the police forces but aiso for Customs Canada.
Implementation of iicensing and registration is aiready in this
bill. It is to be phased in over a long period of time, six and eight

2289
28

years respectively. The longer we wait. the worse the problem
becomes.
I also want to assure Senator Ghitter that I did flot hide away
here in Ottawa or in this room. 1 consuited witb Calgary city
aldermen. among otbers who assured me -some of them were
quite heated about it - that we should, "Get on with the job,
stop talking about it and, for Pete's sake pass Bill C-68."'
Calgary City Council was one of the groups approached by
senators as they wended their way through the West during tbe
last few weeks. I understand that they turned down the
opportunity to appear before the senators. They repeated their
continued support for the Canadian Federation of Municipalities
and their strong support for this bill.
This opting-in amendment bas not been given enough serious
consideration in view of the damaging consequences it would
have on the appropriate and equai operation of tbe iaw. For
example, by baving two different Criminal Codes operating
within different jurisdictions, a long gun owned by someone in
an opt-in province - for example, Quebec - could not be sold
to someone living in an opt-out province - like, perhaps,
Ontario - because a licence would be required for tbat sale.
0 (1710)

The Hon. the Speaker pro teinpore: The honourable senator's
time has expired. Is there leave for ber to continue?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Senator Milne: Thank you. honourable senators.
1 believe that this amendment would iead to, and even
promote, interprovincial smuggling. Ail provincial and territorial
govemnments have stressed to the Senate committee the need to
have national standards.
Tis amendment also raises issues under the Canadian Charter
of Rights and Freedoms. Under the old Part III of the Criminal
Code, tbe transfer of a long gun to someone witbout an FAC is
punishable by up to two years' imprisofiment. Under the new
Part III, the same action is punisbable by up to five years'
imprisonment. This raises questions about the equality guarantee
within tbe Charter and the right not to be deprived of liberty
except in accordance with the principles of fundamental justice
in the Charter.
I echo what Senator Carstairs said yesterday: By the division
of powers in the Constitution Act of 1867, the provinces do flot
have the authority to legisiate criminal law. By requiring them to
pass a provincial statute to opt in, this amendment, in effect,
gives them that power. Lt seems to me that this is
unconstitutional.

Another point 10 consider is the difficulty that such uneven
application of this law would cause Canada Customs.
Importation and exportation are clearly and exclusively areas of
federal law-making power. Under Bill C-68, a licence and a
registration certificate is required to bring guns into the country,
or to take them out. How could authorities possibly enforce
different export rules among different provinces'? What about
foreign visitors or groups 0f hunters coming in'? Would a licence
certificate be issued for someone. for example. who arriv~es at the
horders ot an opt-in province but who intends to travel to an
opt-out province? Should customs officers be trained differently
according to where they will be stationed'? How will the public
perceive these differences'? We cannot pass a bill that provides
for differences in the application of the law according to province
and territory. It seems to me that this is clearly bad law.
I might add that there are immense cost implications as well.
Application of' the bill as it stands was intended to be a cost
neutral system. but this was predicated upon revenues received
from registration across Canada. of gun owners who become
licensed across Canada; not on some unknown fraction of' that
amount.
To sum up. the opting-in amendment would make this
legislation so confusing. not to mention vague. that it would
become unenforceable and unworkable. As 1 said betore, it is
simply bad law.
The bill will not prevent every crime under every
circumstance, and 1 do not think anyone has ever claimed that it
will. One can argue for or against any specific amendment. but 1
urge my colîcagues not to lose sighî of the forest through gazing
at the trees. This bill wilI help iii the continuing struggle to
prevent Canada from becoming another gun culture.
A group of people was here from Montreal whose relatives
had been slaughtered six years ago. and I wish to quote from one
of them. Catherine Bergeron, whose sister was slain by Marc
Lépine, urged this house, if 1 may paraphrase her, to go beyond
partisanship; to go deep within ourselves to adopt the bill just as
il is.
I urge honourable senators to join with me in defeating the
amendments contained in this committee report, and sending
Bill C-68 back to the other place in unamended form so that the
process may begin.
Honourable senators. if I could ask your indulgence. this has
been sort of an unusual maiden speech. Perhaps 1 will have the
opportunity at some future time to give a more proper kind of
maiden speech. This has been a litIle bedraggled, perhaps, and
helated. but 1 should like to extol the many virtues of' the place
where 1 live. It is a wonderful place, a cosmopolitan place. and I

1Senlior

Mrvlie
i'

should like to leave you with that thought rather than remind you
of the traumatic and tragic incident that took place there 20 years
ago.

The Hon. the Speaker pro tempore: Honourable senators. it
being 5:15 p.m.. and a vote having been ordered by the Senate
for 5:30 p.m.. pursuant to rule 67(3), 1must interrupt the
proceedings so that the Senate may proceed to the deferred
division on the motion respecting the committee report on
Bill C-69.
Hon. Herbert 0. Sparrow: Your Honour. considering the
lateness of the day. would it stili be possible to make an
amendment tomorrow. or is there a lime restraint of a day's
notice belore an amendment can be made'! 1 have been waiting to
speak.
The Hon. the Speaker pro tempore: There is no requirement
for a day's notice to make an amendment.
Senator Sparrow: Then it can be made tomorrow. Thank you.
Debate suspended.

ELECTORAL BOUNDARIES
READJUSTMENT BILL, 1995
MOTION TO INSTRUCT LEGAL AND CONSTITUTIONAL AFFAIRS
COMM I FEE TO lABLE FINAL REPORT NEGATIVEI) ON DIVISION

On the Order:
On the motion of the Honourable Senator Fairbairn. PC..
seconded by the Honourable Senator Stewart.
That it be an instruction of this House to the Standing
Senate Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs that
no later than Wednesday. November 22, 1995. it present its
final report to the Senate on the Message from the House
of Commons. dated lune 20. 1995. and on the motion of
the Honourable Senator Grahani dated June 28, 1995,
regarding Bill C-69, An Act to provide for the
establishement of electoral boundaries commissions and
the readjustment of electoral boundaries.

The Hon. the Speaker pro ternpore: Honourable senators, the
practice would be to ring the belîs. Strictly speaking. the belîs are
supposed to ring for 15 minutes.

Cali in the senators.

November 21, 1995

November 21, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

2291
2291

SENATE DEBATES

Motion negatived on the following division:
YEAS
THE HONOURABLE SENATORS
Adams
Lewis
Anderson
Losier-Cool
Austin
Lucier
Bacon
MacEachen
Bonneil
Marchand
Bosa
Milne
Bryden
Oison
Carstairs
Pearson
Cools
Perrault
Corbin
Petten
Davey
Pitfield
De Bané
Poulin
Fairbaim
Riel
Gauthier
Rizzuto
Gigantès
Robichaud
Grafstein
Rompkey
Graham
Roux
Haidasz
Stanbury
Hays
Stewart
Hébert
Stoliery
Kenny
Thériault
Kirby
Thompson
Koiber
Watt
Lawson
Wood-48.
NAYS
THE HONOURABLE SENATORS
Andreychuk
Kelly
Angus
Keon
Atkins
Kinsella
Balfour
Lavoie-Roux
Beaudoin
LeBreton
Bemntson
Lynch-Staunton
Bolduc
MacDonald (Halifax)
Buchanan
Meighen
Carney
Murray
Cochrane
Nolin
Cogger
Oliver
Cohen
Ottenheimer
Comeau
Phillips
DeWare
Prud'homme
Di Nino
Rivest
Doody
Roberge
Doyle
Robertson
Eyton
Rossiter
Forrestaîl
Simard
Ghitter
Spivak
Grimard
St. Germain
Gustafson
Stratton
Jessiman
Sylvain
Johnson
Tkachuk
Kelleher
Twinn-50.

ABSTENTIONS
THE HONOURABLE SENATORS
Nil
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, before we
proceed to the next order of business, which wiIl be Bill C-68, I
wish to advise you that, as there is a probability that we may be
sitting later this day, the cafeteria will be open until 2030 hours
and the Parliamentary Restaurant wilI be open until 2100 hours.
We will now proceed with Bill C-68.

FIREARMS BILL
CONSIDERATION 0F REPORT 0F COMMITTEEDEBATE CONTINUED

On the Order:
Resuming the debate on the motion of the Honourable
Senator Beaudoin. seconded by the Honourable Senator
Grimard, for the adoption of the Sixteenth Report of the
Standing Senate Committee on Legal and Constitutional
Affairs, (Bill C-68, respecting firearms and other weapons,
with amendments), presented in the Senate on Monday, 2Oth
November, 1995.
[Translation]
POINT 0F ORDER

Hon. Marcel Prud'homme: Honourable senators, 1 rise on a
point of order. Last week we said we would vote on Bill C-68.
There was talk of the possibility of a somewhat earlier vote, but
no time was specified.
You know that, tomorrow, the Secretary General of the United
Nations will be visiting. A number of people are involved. We
want to be here to vote. We should know the time of the vote, so
we will not be taken by surprise. Could we know exactly what
was agreed on regarding the vote and the exact tîme it will be
held tomorrow?
The Hon. the Speaker pro teinpore: It is the decision of this
bouse that the vote will take place at 5:30 p.m. tomorrow. and
that the bells will sound at 5:15 p.m.
I have received no other notice. unless the senators have
reached agreement among themselves.

[English]
*

I1740)

Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourable senators, it is true that when we
discussed the house order for a vote at 5:30, the possibility was
raised that, with unanimous consent, the vote might be advanced.
Indeed, the proposition was put forward by Senator Prud'homme
at that time. I do not foresee at the present time that that vote
would be advanced to earlier than 5:30 because of the number of
honourable senators on both sides of the house who have
indicated that they would like to speak to this very important
piece of legislation. I would anticipate, at least from this side and I would await comments from the Deputy Leader of the
Opposition - that we will be debating Bill C-68 almost up to the
time of the vote tomorrow afternoon.
Senator Berntson: Honourable senators, I think we have more
interest in this debate than we have time for the debate. I agree
with my colleague opposite, and I suggest that we put aIl
musings aside and decide now that we will have the vote as
previously indicated.
Hon. Consiglio Di Nino: Honourable senators, Canadians
from across the country have passionately presented their views
on both sides of this issue. I have attempted to listen to aIl, and
have tried to keep an open mind.
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, could I please
ask for some silence so that the honourable senator may
continue?
Senator Di Nino: Thank you. Your Honour.
Honourable senators, before I go any further, let me confess
that my personal opinion on gun ownership is both extreme and
unreasonable. I do not own nor do I intend to own a gun. If I
could, I would ban aIl guns. But, alas, my Pollyanna stance
ignores the Canadian reality.
Over the past several months, I have heard supporters of this
legislation, an impressive list of respected Canadians and
Canadian organizations, put forth positions with which I can
identify. I must admit that. at the outset, I generally supported
their arguments.
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, could I please
ask honourable senators who need to have conversations to
please have them outside of the chamber, so that the honourable
senator may be heard.
Senator Di Nino: I appreciate your direction once again, Your
Honour.
I generally supported their arguments as I did during the
debates on the previous gun legislation, Bill C-17. However,
unlike 1991, this time I decided to listen to arguments of
Canadians with opposing views. I have tried to read aIl that has
come across my desk. I do not think that I have succeeded. but I

tried. I have talked to Canadians from Whitehorse to Port Perry;
from Toronto to Iqaluit; and from Saint John to Regina. I was
surprised to discover that millions of Canadians oppose this bill.
Rosemary Kuptana. President of the Inuit Tapirisat, eloquently
expressed the concerns of Canadians living in remote, isolated
communities and, in particular, the effect that this legislation, if
passed. would have on the lifestyle and, in many cases, the
survival of natives in the Northwest Territories. John Williams of
Port Perry, Ontario, was as eloquent in his representation of
millions of Canadians who are law-abiding, contributing
members of society who strongly and honestly believe that this
bill is an unnecessary and serious infringement on their civil
rights. Doctor Judith Ross who, when asked if this bill would
marginalize gun owners the way smokers have been and make
them second class citizens in the eyes of many, replied that Bill
C-68 will not only marginalize gun owners but also criminalize
them.
An organization which carries a lot of weight that would
influence my opinion is the Canadian Association of Chiefs of
Police. I support, and I want to continue supporting our police
forces. Too often in the past, we have not backed legitimate
police concerns, especially in Metro Toronto. When speaking to
rank and file officers, I discovered that many, if not most, oppose
this bill. One officer with whom I spoke told me that the 40
officers in the unit for which he is responsible unanimously
oppose Bill C-68. We know that the Ontario Police Association
also opposes this bill, as do other police forces across Canada.
We have heard numerous arguments with supporting statistics
which do not appear to stand up to scrutiny. I am tabling a copy
of an article entitled: "Off the Mark." written by Karen Selick for
the magazine The Next Citv. Among other things, it raises sonie
interesting questions and challenges a number of assumptions put
forth by Mr. Rock.
Because of time constraints - and I do not think the time
allowed would permit me to quote fairly from this article in a
balanced and just manner - instead of cherry-picking from the
article. I would ratherjust table it. I hope that you will ail read it.
I do not necessarily agree with aIl she writes, but the article is
thought provoking, and I recommend that you look at it before
deciding how to vote tomorrow.
Honourable colleagues, the committee and Canadians have
heard from four provincial governments and both territorial
governments, including my own province of Ontario. They ail
oppose the passage of Bill C-68. Their arguments are well
founded and thoughtful, and deserve our attention.
Mr. Rock dismisses their arguments unceremoniously.
Mr. Rock has also turned a deaf ear to the millions of Canadians
who disagree with Bill C-68. They believe that he has treated
them disrespectfully and contemptuously, even though these
millions of Canadians share the same concerns as Mr. Rock and
ourselves about crime and criminals, but disagree with Mr. Rock
as to whether this legislation will solve any of the problems
created by those who misuse guns.

November 21, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

My personal opinion is that this bill does not deal severely
enough with the criminals who carry or use guns. Bill C-68 does
not contain harsh enough penalties for those who misuse
weapons. We must send the strongest possible message to those
who use firearms in the commission of crimes, those who
smuggle firearms into Canada, and those who possess illegal
weapons. We must let them know that law-abiding Canadians
will not tolerate their actions, and that they will pay a heavy
price. Those who believe that "packing a piece" is a status
symbol must be taught a lesson they will not easily forget.
Honourable senators, Bill
do nothing to stop illegally
our streets. If this legislation
will not be safer and neither

C-68 does not do this. This bill will
owned weapons from getting on to
is passed, I am afraid that the streets
will our schools.

It seems to me that Mr. Rock is playing political games with
window-dressing and is not addressing the real problem of the
criminals who threaten and shoot people. Bill C-68 may very
well help criminals by expanding the illegal underground market
for restricted and banned weapons.
For the past several months, Canadians have engaged in this
passionate debate and, as anticipated, the debate has flushed out
weaknesses in this bill. Some of the weaknesses are reflected in
the proposed amendments.
What the amendments do not truly reflect is the frustration and
anger felt by so many Canadians whose voices are being ignored.
These men and women are not hoodlums or criminals, although
Bill C-68 may criminalize some of them. They care as
passionately as ail of us about the painful and atrocious tragedies
which result from criminal acts involving guns. They are farmers
and professionals, small and large business owners, housewives
and factory workers, grandparents and sales clerks. They are all
citizens like you and me, and they come from every corner of our
country. They have been understanding and patient. However, I
fear they are reaching the limits of their tolerance. Yes, these are
real Canadians, and there are millions of them.
0

(1750)

2293

If this bill is passed now, then Karen Selick's prediction may
come to pass:
But the debate that raged throughout Canada in 1994 and
1995 will ultimately prove to be just one of many battles in
a long, long war.
Honourable senators, others in this chamber have spoken
much more eloquently than I ever could on the pros and cons of
this bill. What I have done is to listen to Canadians who are
being ignored and, with my vote tomorrow, I will speak on their
behalf.
Senator Graham: Honourable senators, I see the clock and I
will try to speak within the time. I know that honourable
senators opposite have regional caucuses scheduled for
six o'clock. I assure honourable senators that I will not go
beyond two or three minutes past six.
I want to address just one aspect of the current debate. I think
it is best illustrated in a little story that I read about a few weeks
ago. At a recent National Rifle Association convention in
Phoenix, Arizona, all the delegates were observed to be walking
the halls with empty holsters. The question which immediately
crossed my mind was: Why would such ardent gun owners be
caught without their shooting irons handy? The answer is a
simple one: The NRA demands that their members deposit their
guns at the door as a pre-condition to admission. In other words,
the common good of the membership is served by a rigorous
control of the individuals who make up the association.
Although NRA officials openly state that people, not guns, kill
people, I believe the actions taken in organizing their
conventions speak louder than their words.
Clearly, the organizers worry about the exceptions, and I
emphasize the exceptions. The greatest threat to any free
association is the fear of the unexpected; and the greatest threat
to freedom is fear.

Honourable senators, I may not totally agree with them, but I
will not ignore them. Because of ail the eloquent voices raised in
protest to this bill by so many Canadians, I believe that the best
way to deal with this issue is for the Parliament of Canada to
delay the passage of this bill for a couple of years.

Robert Frost had the gift of saying important things with the
beauty of simplicity. "There's nothing I am afraid of like scared
people," he once observed. I would like to reflect briefly on this
thought in stressing the great significance of the legislation
before us today.

I ask the Minister of Justice to allow time for calm reflection,
a period of thoughtful contemplation and dialogue among
interested Canadians. What is the hurry, Mr. Rock? Why are we
creating another divisive issue which pits Canadian against
Canadian, especially at this time in our history?

None of us can be unaffected by the waves of crime and
violence so endemic in our country today. I do not think any
supporters of this legislation believe that this will be the final
chapter in the government's fight against the tragedy incurred by
far too many of our citizens as a result of the actions of some
gunmen. This, of course, can be of the random variety, but it can
be of the far more dangerous, premeditated kind of violence as
well. Frost was right in his observation - fear generates fear. It
destroys confidence. It destroys optimism. It generates paralysis.

With the thoughtful input of all the stakeholders during the
next couple of years, we can craft a bill which will really get
tough on criminals and be fair to law-abiding Canadians.

No nation can be free, no people can be free. living in a culture
or society where people are scared. Closed doors are flot the
route of freedom. No nation living behind ciosed doors is free.
The important thing to remember about freedom. honourahie
senators, is that it is really a state of mind. It is the openness of
spirit with which we think of ourselves and others. That is why
random violence and terror are so detrirnental to liberty and
dernocratic values. Such acts close the portais of the confidence
citizens have in thernselves and in their fellow hurnan beings.
Such acts have become part of the process of decay within
peace-loving nations such as ours.

However, honourable senators. there is a greater fear at work
in ail of this. and it is the fear which can destroy freedom. the
closed doors which lock out the spirit of liberty t'rom the hearts
and the minds of Canadians. 1 must say that. for those victims of
violence infiicted by guns. and for ail those who live behind
closed doors in fear of violence inflicted by guns. and for ail
those who have witnessed violence inflicted by guns. ai other
l'cars must be secondary. They have one simple request to make
of Canadians: When you corne to the meeting. leave your guns at
the door. The common good of Canadians rests on the fact that
we recognize that it is people with guns who kilI people.

That is why. honourable senators. we mnust be as jealous of our
responsibilities as we are of our liberties. Like the National Rille
Association, we must leave our weapons at the door or. to corne
to the present debate, we must register themn because the fear of
the unexpected, of the unanticipated, can ruin many a fine farnily.
many a fine association, and rnany a country.

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators. it is now a tew
minutes aller six o'clock. If it is the wish of the Senate. 1 will flot
see the dlock. Under the rules. I am to leave the chair ai
six o'clock. What is the wish of the Senate?

Someone once said that liberty means responsibility. 0f course
it is also taie that many people dread responsibility. In lieu of the
vcry focused opposition t0 gun control in sorne sections of our
society. in some areas of our country, the gun control debate
epitornizes the quandary that democratic governments mnust
periodical iy experience in protecting liberty.
Sornehow. govemnments mnust balance individual rights against
the common good. This baiancing act is never-ending. We mnust
remember. as well. that the fight to make the streets of our nation
safer has as much to do with things like literacy as it has to do
with law. The security of Canadians is as much contingent on
health as it is on gun control. Public salèety has as much to do
with living standards as with sentencing. It is in this regard.
honourable senators. that I speak of the task of' government as a
continuing balancing act.
The important point to make today, however. is that gun
control means the preservation of the common good, even though
there may be some concessions individual gun owners will have
to make. In other words, gun owners must consider coming to the
association meeting with empty hoisters. a concession. in rny
opinion. to the preservation of the common good of the
community.
O

(Lso)

No one who loves liberty can fail to be impressed by the
arguments of farmers, of hunters. of northerners, and of firearms
enthusiasts generally. 1 have foliowed the debates very closely.
They have mounted a significant and well-publicized carnpaign.
They fear that gun control could mean prosecution of innocent
Canadians for failure to register their weapons. They fear the loss
of constitutional freedoms. They fear the loss of important
sources of traditionai incomes and the impact on livelihoods. In
many instances. they fear the inconveniences and the costs
associated with the registration plan. 1 recognize and empathize
with what 1 arn sure those individuals teed are their very
leeitîrnate concerns.

1Senatoi Gianii ]

Hon. William M. Kelly: I believe we are about to recess until
eight o'clock. 1 arn the next in fine to speak. I hope that senators
will indulge me and allow me to speak ai eight o'clock. I arn an
old man and have t0 get to bcd early.
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators. it being
six o'clock., 1 leave the chair. to return at eight o'clock.
The Senate adjoumned until 8 p.m.
e 200

At 8 p.m. the sitting of the Senate resumed.

Hon. William M. Kelly: Honourable senators. I apologize to
Senator Doyle. 1 did not realize that he had a question which he
wished to direct to Senator Graham. Therefore. providing that I
can retain my place. I ask that Senator Doyle he allowed to ask
his qucstion now.
Hon. Richard J. Doyle: Wili you accept a question. senator?
Senator Graham: Absolutely; especially from you. Senator
Doyle.

Senator Doyle: In that spirit. allow me to say how impressed
I was with your contribution to this debate. From trne to lime.
we ail need reminding that we do flot corne to this chamber to be
strangers. We are Canadians ail. with goals to share and hopes to
achieve. I have not spoken to anyone on either side of this
chamber who does flot wish f'or the wisdom to devise more
effective gun control.
The question which disturbs me is this: Couid we flot have
been dloser than we are today to that goal had we corne together
at the beginning without legisiation already passed in the other
place and aiready assumed to be heyond improvement?
Would the honourable senator. in the spirit of his message. say
to his colleagues that the time has corne for a return of prestudy
of bis in areas in which the public good wouid be best servedi by
giving our committees the opportunity to work with open minds
and ernpty hoisters?

November 21, 1995

November2l, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

SENATE DEBATES

Some Hon. Senators: Hear, hear!
Senator Graham: Senator Doyle always has words of
wisdom. I do remember the days of prestudy. I recall that when
we dealt with the emergency situation in the country with respect
to the railway strike, we pre-examined that proposed legislation,
but it was not prestudied.
In the same spirit of cooperation which Senator Doyle is
seeking from this side, I say to him that it would have been very
helpful if the bill which is now before us had been further
examined. It could, indeed, have been dealt with by the Standing
Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs over the summer
when there were several months during which the committee
could have done a proper examination of the bill, rather than
waiting until time was running out.
I take Senator Doyle's suggestion in the best spirit of the
chamber. It is something to which I would not turn a blind eye or
a blind ear, particularly when it comes from someone with his
very impressive credentials.
Senator Kelly: Honourable senators, on several occasions
during my time as a senator, this place has debated highly
contentious and politically charged legislation. The first such
legislation to which I was exposed dealt with the National
Energy Program. Since then, we have had the GST legislation
and, of course, Bill C-22, the bill relating to the Pearson
International Airport. We have before us today, Bill C-68, which
is as contentious as anything that has been brought before the
Senate recently.
The lesson I learned from some of these debates, and in
particular the marathon GST debate, is that we all lose when the
Senate is motivated, or appears to be motivated, by partisan
politics. We, as individual senators, lose and, more important,
this institution, and the people whom we are appointed to serve,
lose.
This place is, or should be, the house of sober second thought.
I do not believe, and have never believed, that partisanship
should be our preoccupation. It is perhaps in vain, but I would
hope that we could put aside partisanship and partisan objectives
in our consideration of Bill C-68. The debate on Bill C-68 has
been emotional and polarized. Those supporting the bill and
those opposing it come to it from the very divergent views of the
society in which we live, and of the society to which we aspire.
They also come to this bill from very different views of the
motives, and of the proper role of govemment in that society.
I believe the Senate performs its best service to Canadians
when it cuts through the emotions and the politics, and examines
the essence of the proposed legislation which comes before it.
That is what I should like to accomplish with this bill and the
amendments to it which have been proposed by the committee.
Those of you who know me, know that I am an avid shooter
and hunter. I therefore bring to this debate a certain perspective
and a certain knowledge of firearms. The time available does not

2295
2295

allow me to discuss each proposed amendment in detail. I will
endeavour to be brief.
First, I have serious concems about the proposed amendment
which would allow individual provinces to delay enforcement of
this legislation for up to eight years. In that regard, I have three
concerns.
The first is that this could result in something constituting an
offence in one part of Canada and not in another. I believe that,
particularly in matters of criminal law, all Canadians, wherever
they are in Canada, must be treated equally.
Second, I worry about the precedent we are establishing for
asymmetrical federalism by statute in an area of exclusive federal
jurisdiction. I do not believe we have considered the implications
of that seriously enough. Is a special-purpose piece of legislation
such as Bill C-68 the appropriate means to create such a
far-reaching precedent?
Third, I worry that such a provision would encourage
interprovincial smuggling of restricted firearms. We have seen
how varying provincial taxation regimes led to the smuggling of
tobacco on an unprecedented scale. I am afraid that, as a result of
this amendment, the same type of situation would occur with
respect to firearns.

I do not agree with the proposed amendment relating to
antique firearms. As someone very familiar with firearms of all
sorts, I know that antique weapons can be just as dangerous and
lethal, in fact often more so, as modem weapons. I find it entirely
reasonable, therefore, that they should be brought under the same
regime.
0

2010)

Certain of the proposed amendments can be handled by
regulation and, in fact, are better handled by regulation. I refer in
particular to exemptions of bona fide sporting guns from the
definition of prohibited firearms and the exception of bona fide
museums from registration fees. The museum situation is an
excellent case in point supporting regulations over a statutory
amendment. What constitutes a bona fide museum will have to
be carefully defined in order to avoid every gun owner, gun
collector or gun merchant calling themselves a museum in order
to evade the provisions of this legislation.
I also understand that bona fide museums should have no
administrative difficulty complying with the provisions of
Bill C-68. They will simply turn over their catalogue of pieces to
the registrar and, if done in the first year after proclamation, will
pay no fee.
Honourable senators, I have several reservations about the
proposed amendment that would require full and considered
consultations to ensure that aboriginal and treaty rights are not
eroded prior to proclamation of any section of Bill C-68, or any
regulation under Bill C-68 that affects aboriginals. I fully
recognize that First Nations have special constitutional and treaty

rights. My understanding, however. is that this requirement for
consultation goes beyond the requirements in section 35 ot the
Constitution Act. It is also my understanding that the courts have
held that aboriginal and treaty rights are flot absolute. but this
amendiment would make themn so. at least in the context of'
Bill C-68.
Again we are establishing a major constitutional precedent in a
special-purpose statute. That troubles me.
1 also tear that the amendment will muddy the waters. What
constitutes full and considered consultations'? Who decides? In
my view, the amendment could easily be a recipe for endless
court proceedings.
Finally. 1 do not agree with the amendiment that renmoves
minimum sentencing requirements for repeat offenders. This
would have the effect of' reducing considerably the teeth in the
legisiation to deal effectively with the illegal trade of' firearms.
The same applies with the shift from penalties under the
Criminal Code to summary conviction under the Firearms Act.
We must ask ourselves how important this legislation is and
how serious we are in its implementation. If this is important
legisiation and if we are serious. let us flot water it down too
much. Let us give the authorities the tools they need for
enforcement.
On the other hand. the committee has proposed amendments in
which I sec menit. 1 have concerns about the minister or the
Governor in Council being able to criminalize by regulation - if
1 may put it that way -as is contemplated by clause 119(6).
The govemment contends that the public consultation process
which attends the making of' siieh regulalions guards against
abuse. The consultation process involves prepublication in the
Canada Gazette and a consultation period of at least 30 days. or
70 days if Canada's international treaty obligations are involved.
However, 1 point out that this process exists by Treasury Board
guideline. not by statute or even by regulation. It also does flot
involve Parliament. 1 have personal knowledge of at least one
situation where departmental officiais tried to sneak a proposed
regulation through in the dog days of summer. and were brought
up short only by a vigilant industry and by international
complaints through diplomatic channels.
Accordingly. I do not have the same degree of faith in this
process as my government friends. 1 sympathize with the spirit of'
the amendment proposed by the committee which would require
tabling of any proposedi regulation before Parliament.
Incidentally. Bill C-7. currently before the Senate. raises exactly
the same issue.
Honourable senators. because I disagree with some
amendments and I concur with others. 1 amn faced with the
question: What amn I to do'? I have tried personally to go back to
some basic principles. I have asked myself: Does this bill as a

1Seniitoi- KeIlN

1

whole aim to satisfy a legitimate public policy obýjective'? Will
the bill as a whole likely be eftective in satistying that objective'?
Is there a proper balance in the bill as a whole between achievinthat public policy objective and in safeguarding the established
civil rights of Canadians?
Does this bill aim to satisfy a legitimate public policy
objective'? This bill aims to reduce the incidence of' death and
injury duc to firearnis. It aimis to reduce criminal incidents
involving firearms. It aims to reduce the threat to innocent
Canadians from the misuse of firearms. Even those of us who
believe in a minimal role for govemment in society. even those
of us who would like te, return to Adani Smitb's "watchman*s
state- recognize that the essential role of government in civil
society is public security and safety. That is the essence of' a
social contract between the govemnment and the governed.
Will Bill C-68 be effective'? There is no obvious, empirical
evidence that Bill C-68 will work, nor is there evidence that it
would flot work. Experience with similar legislation in other
countnies varies. At least, the interpretation of that experience
varies. Therefore. I must defer to the experts. the people on the
front lines. I note that two national police associations. the
Canadian Association of Police Chiefs and the Canadian Police
Association, support Bill C-68 in its current, unamended form. as
do 44 police organizations at the provincial and municipal levels
across Canada. The police argue. in part. that 47 per cent of
firearms seized in criminal incidents are rifles or shotguns
compared to 2 1 per cent that are handguns. They state that.
without the information obtained through registration. there is
t(x) little control.
1 amn also impressed by the fact that a very large number of'
health care organizations, over 50 I believe, such as the Canadian
Association of Emiergency Physicians and many organizations
representing suicide prevention experts and public health
professionals. support Bill C-68.
I know that Bill C-68 is flot the only solution to crime. It is flot
the only solution to abuse within the family or to suicide. It is a
partial solution but I cannot help but be swayed by 46 police
associations and over 50 health care groups who tell us that it is
both an effective and a necessary step. More important. if the
police organizations tell us that Bill C-68 is an important tool to
add to their arsenal in crime prevention and apprehension. 1 amn
inclined to take their word for it and provide them with the
legislative tools they seek.
That brings me to my third fundamental question: Does
Bill C-68 as a whole achieve a proper balance between the ends
it seeks and the means it chooses to reach that end'? This bas been
a very vexing question. First, it must be noted that there is
notbing in our Constitution that gives our citizens the right to
bear arms. In this. therefore. there is a fundamental difterence
from our American neighbours. I arn also told that there is
nothing in our Constitution that bars the registration of firearms
as contemplated by Bill C-68.

November 21, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

I personally do not object to the registration of firearms, any
more than I object to the registration of my car or my dog. I
would reject the claim which has been made by some, that
registration is a Trojan horse for government expropriation, that
once the government knows where these firearms are, it will
swoop down and take them away. Quite frankly, with all due
respect, I find this argument silly, although I admit that, in a
public relations sense, it has been effective. It is based on a view
of the world and a relationship between government and
governed which is more reflective of the American right-wing
militia than mainstream Canadian society.
Honourable senators, I have concluded that this bill, taken as a
whole, meets my three tests. It is not a perfect bill, but I think we
all agree that few bills that pass this place are without some
flaws. My biggest concern is that, by supporting certain
amendments, I may help put the entire bill at risk. I do not wish
to be a party to killing this bill.
If we are committed to voting for or against the amendments
as a slate, I will have to consider very carefully and weigh the
risks inherent in supporting a set of amendments that may
imperil the bill against my personal desire to support certain
important amendments that I think would improve the bill.
Honourable senators, it is not an easy decision. I shall weigh
the alternatives very carefully between now and 5:30 tomorrow
evening.
Hon. Herbert O. Sparrow: Honourable senators, first of all, I
would like to thank the Speaker for attending my office earlier
today.
Next, I want to speak on the committee report and on the
amendments which are before us. At the end of my short address,
I want to make a further amendment.
The members of the Senate who have spoken have all
indicated that they are not opposed to greater efforts to control
crime in this country, nor to additional penalties for criminals
who commit crimes with firearms. I think we are all of one mind
there.
0(C2020fl

My greatest objection to the bill, and I will speak in opposition
to some of its provisions, is primarily the registration of the long
barrelled guns. These are the so-called shotguns and rifles used
extensively by the native community as a tool for livelihood and
also by the agricultural and ranching communities who consider
those firearms a tool. We fail to consider those of our citizens
who may be from the larger, urban communities and who may
have never owned a gun or used a gun. Perhaps they have never
known anyone who owns a gun. They may have never been
outside city limits where guns might very well be used.
I have some sympathy for those people who say, "As far as I
am concerned, there should be no guns." There is a school of
thought that exists out there because of that very issue.

2297

Where I come from - and we can call it distinct society or
whatever we want - there is a distinct difference in the way we
think. That is true for various parts of this country. There is
definitely a distinct way of thinking in Northern Canada, there is
definitely a distinct way of thinking in Western Canada, in the
agricultural community. It is unfair for us to say that those people
are bigots, or whatever, because they are opposed to some
provisions of this bill and, more particularly, the registration of
those firearms.
Let me just talk to you for a minute about that aspect of the
bill, namely the registration of guns. People who have never
committed a crime, and who have no intention of committing a
crime, wonder why it is necessary for them to register the tools
of their trade. Let me talk to you about a farmer, or a rancher, and
the use of guns.
Many of such people do not hunt for a living, but they use the
tool of a rifle or a shotgun on the farm. They would use it, not
necessarily daily but certainly at least once a week. When they
have predators on their farms, be they porcupines, rabbits,
skunks, rats, gophers, coyotes - any of those predators - the
gun is a necessary tool. When people head for their pastures and
ranches, they must take a gun with them in the event that a calf
or a cow has broken a leg, and must be put down. Some animals,
such as bears, may be predators on the calves, and the gun is a
necessary tool.
Let me make this personal: I do not hunt, but I have two guns
on the farm. They are tools. I must use those guns to give to the
men who work on that farm, or to the members of my family
who go from point to point. If I am required to register that gun,
I must register it in my name only. I must register at the address
where I live. I cannot take that gun to the four different areas in
which I ranch or farm.
I have what we call bunkhouses on each of those places. They
have only one room. When you stay overnight in that bunkhouse
with a gun, you will be breaking that law. I cannot have my men
go out with those guns because the gun is not registered to them.
It is easy to say, "Well, get them to apply for a licence to own a
gun." This involves all of my family members, and all of the
people who may work on my farm. It may be a person who is
working there for just one day, going out to the ranch or the farm
for that use. It is unreasonable that they should be expected to
conform to the desires of the problem areas in the city of
Toronto. It is not fair. Why would we make criminals out of those
farmers or those farm workers because they did not have a gun to
register?
If a farmer attends to a farm 50 miles from his residence and
he takes a shotgun and a rifle with him - which is the normal
process - in his truck or car, because he will need it there, and
he decides to stop on the way back, 25 miles out, to attend a
Liberal meeting, he breaks the law. Maybe he should not attend

that meeting. anyway. Maybe there should be a law against it. If
you attend any type ot meeting on the way back, you have
broken the law because you are carrying a gun with you. You
must then justity to the police officer or to the court that you
were justified in having that lirearm with you. Il creates the
opportunity for many of those people to become criminals under
the existing legislation.
When you talk about the north country -and these gentlemen
bere will talk about that tomorrow - we are in that fringe area
t'rom where I live. A gun or a rifle is a tool of the trade for tbem.
When tbey go out, must ail] those family members have a license
to own that gun? Each time they borrow that rifle [rom someone
eIse. must they have written permission to do so? This is an
unreasonable approach.
If 1 was convinced that the act of registration itself would save
lives. then I might take another look at that and say, *"Yes, it
migbt very well save lives." However, the tact that a gun is
registered bas literally nothing to do with saving a life. If a
person is intending to draw a gun on someone. they do not check
first to see if it is registered. ()bviously, tbey do not do that.
The police departments in Western Canada are basically not
for this legislation because they are working with such people. If
the police out there have access to what would be a gun registry
on a computer. and if violence in a home is reported, the police
can check that registry and say 'Yes. there are guns in that
home"; or. 'There are no guns in that home." If there were guns
in that home. tbey would go out and surround the bouse. take out
their loudspeakers and say, -'Tbrow out your registered guns.They would not ask for the guns that are not registered. Why
would any policeman in bis right mind go to any home where
there is violence and assume that there are no guns there? The
answer is "Absolutely not." That would not occur.
Senator Gustafson: Tbey aIl say that.
Senator Sparrow: Yes. tbey ail say that it is not a protective
tool for themn in those particular circumstances.
Wben we talk about the native community. when they go out
migbt very well be to visit in a one-room sback - bow
are they to register a gun if there are six people there? If any one
of the farmers in my comniunity bas a criminal record for
impaired driving. or wbatever it may be considered, be cannot
get a licence for that gun. It might be extremely ditiicult for bim.
His wbole family and the whole operation sutièrs because be bas
a criminal record for something else. The wbole community in
wbîcb be lives will also suffer.
-wbicb

This is also true for the native community. We often bear that
80) per cent of' the people in jails are native people witb records.
Upon release trom jail. tbey cannot get a licence to own a -un in
order to support themseîves. That is wbat Bill C-68 will do to
tbem.
I will put forward an amendment to this report to take away
the need for registration of those tools. They are tools. not

1senaloi Sparro
I

1

weapons. That would satisfy. in most instances. the people who
feel that. primariîy. not only their lives but also their livelihood is
tbreatened by this particular aspect.
It is easy to say: What is the big deal about licensing? The
Prime Minister and Mr. Rock bave said that we license our
bicycles. our cars. our dogs and our cats. We do not! There is not
a tarmer in Saskatchewan who bas to license bis bicycle, bis dog.
bis cat. bis tractor or bis aIllterrain vebicle.
One senator said to me. "We used to license our radios.Perbaps we did. Do we want to go to that extent? Would tbey be
happy in the city of Toronto. for example. to register their
televisions? There is so mucb violence on television nowadays
that it might very well be wortbwbile controlling what is watcbed
on TV. We are talking about getting at crime: corruption and
crime by violence. yet we allow these things to, bappen.
*

12030

It is said that deatbs are caused by guns in the case of' those
who commit suicide or murder. There are far more suicides in the
Province of Saskatchewan caused by agricultural crises than
there are for any other reason. and tbey are usually not carried
out witb guns. Far more people are killed by tractors on the farm,
by being hucked off a horse, or by being kicked by a cow. Some
would take away those tools and say. "Il is no big deal.' It is a
big deal.
MOTION IN AMENDMENT

VOTE DEFERRED

Hon. Herbert 0. Sparrow: Honourable senators, I wisb to
move. seconded hy Senator Lawson:
That the report be not now adopted but that il be amended
(a) by adding. on the first page. immediately before
amendment number 1, the following:
- 1. Page 15. clause 15. 1: add, after fine 4. on page 15. the
following new Clause:
"15.1. (1) A registration certificate is not required for
any purpose under this Act or any other enactmnent for a
firearm that is reasonable l'or use in Canada for hunting or
sporting purposes.
(2) Notwithstanding subsection ( 1). a registration
certificate may be issued f'or a tirearmt that is reasonable
for use in Canada for hunting or sporting purposes.
(3) For the purposes of' this section, a firearmn shaîl be
deemed to be reasonable for use in Canada for hunting or
sporting purposes if'
(a) it is a rifle or shotgun designed or intended to be
used l'or bunting or sporting purposes; and

SENATE DEBATES

November 21 ý 1995

(b) it is not a firearm described in

2299

Senator Sparrow: Certainly.

(i) paragraph (b) or (c) of the definition of
"prohibited firearm" in section 84 of the Criminal
Code, or

Senator Carstairs: My first question is a practical one. Would
the senator tell me exactly where in the legislation he is
prohibited from taking a weapon to one of his cabins?

(ii) paragraph (b) or (c) of the definition of
"1restricted firearm" in section 84 of the Criminal
Code.

Senator Sparrow: First, I should like to quote from the bill in
regard to carrying a weapon from one place to another if I am
stopping at a meeting.

(4) Notwithstanding any other provision, no person who
possesses a firearm that is reasonable for use in Canada for
hunting or sporting purposes commits an offence under
this Act or any other enactment by reason only that the
person is not the holder of a registration certificate for the
firearm.""; and
(b) by renumbering
accordingly.

the

subsequent amendments

The Hon. the Speaker: Is it your pleasure, honourable
senators, to adopt the motion?
Some Hon. Senators: Yes.
Some Hon. Senators: No.

Clause 89 states:
(1) Every person commits an offence who, without lawful
excuse, carries a weapon, a prohibited device or any
ammunition or prohibited ammunition while the person is
attending or is on the way to attend a public meeting.
(2) Every person who commits an offence under
subsection (1) is guilty of an offence punishable on
summary conviction.
That means that I cannot carry a weapon from one place to
another if I am to stop at a meeting.
Senator Carstairs: It means that you have to have a lawful
excuse.

Hon. Eric Arthur Berntson (Deputy Leader of the
Opposition): I rise on a point of order, honourable senators. I
believe that the house order is such that the debate should
continue concurrently on the amendments and the main motion;
and that all votes should take place tomorrow.

Senator Sparrow: That is right. I have to justify to a police
officer or to a court why I had it with me there, that is correct. I
said that.

[Translation]

Senator Lewis: Are you not talking about leaving it in your
car or truck?

Hon. Marcel Prud'homme: Honourable senators, I believe
that Senator Berntson is right in saying that all the Speaker has to
decide now is whether the amendment is acceptable or not. If
you decide the amendment is acceptable, discussion on the
amendment will continue, keeping the general debate in mind of
course. I do not think we are required to dispose of it at this
point.
[English]

The Hon. the Speaker: Unless I misunderstand the house
order, honourable senators, my understanding is that, provided
this motion is in order, and I believe it is, then we must proceed
to debate this motion. If there is no further debate, I will call a
vote on it, but there will be no standing vote on it until tomorrow.
The standing vote will be deferred until tomorrow.
The debate will now proceed on this amendment. If there are
no honourable senators who wish to speak on the amendment,
then I will call the vote.
Hon. Sharon Carstairs: Honourable senators, I wish to ask a
few questions of Senator Sparrow, if he is prepared to accept
some.

Senator Sparrow: Yes, I am.
Senator Lewis: That is not taking it from place to place.
Senator Sparrow: Yes, it is. It is interpreted that way.
With respect to the other issue of taking a gun from one farrn
to the other, if you overnight on that farm in a one-room bunk
house, under existing law you have to have that gun in safe
storage in a separate room. I do not have separate rooms.
I cannot then have any member of my family take that gun,
unless they have a permit to own guns. I cannot give it to any
man who may work as a rancher or a farm hand unless he, in
tum, has a licence to own a gun. He also bas to prove that he
obtained permission from me to have that gun.
Surely, under the law, there will not be a blanket permission as
such for every man who comes to work for me on a part-time
basis, or whatever the case may be.
Yes, there are restrictions every step along the way, and I could
be breaking the law at each of those steps.

Senator Carstairs: I have another question for the honourable
senator. Let me say to the senator that the safe storage
regulations have not yet been written.

Senator Berntson: Why not?
Senator Carstairs: The safe storage regulations found in
Bill C-17 certainly allow you to transport a gun under those
circumstances. However, the provisions of that bill do not allow
you to carry it to a public meeting. I must suggest that I think that
is not a bad idea.
Does the honourable senator not agree that an employee of his
who is to take his gun should have some training in the use of
that gun. and some knowledge of safety standards with respect to
the use of that gun'? Alternatively, does the honourable senator
think that anyone should have a gun without any training
whatsoever just because they want to have a gun?
Senator Sparrow: I thank the honourable senator for her
question. It is ridiculous, but I am prepared to answer it.
You do not give a gun to someone without a reason. I
explained the reasons why they would have a gun on the farm.
They have a use for that gun. It is the same as the native
community.
The honourable senator is implying in her question that only
dumb people would give someone a gun to use for any purpose.
I would ask her to consider the situation in the North. The
aboriginal people do not give their guns out willy-nilly. They
train their people in the use of firearms. We train our people. We
will not give out those guns willy-nilly, either. Surely to
goodness we are not that retarded, although you may think so.
We do not use these tools the same as we would use a tractor, an
all-terrain vehicle, a combine, a swather, any tool on the farm.
That is what I am saying: The honourable senator just does not
understand that aspect of this issue.

Senator Carstairs: I think I do understand. Quite frankly. I
think that if they indeed have that knowledge about safety, it will
be very simple for them to qualify for a licence.
I have one final question. How do you explain that the rate of
suicide by guns, and particularly rifles and shotguns. and the rate
of domestic violence using rifles and shotguns, is higher in the
Prairie provinces, in the Northwest Territories, in the Yukon, and
in rural Canada than in urban Canada?
Senator Sparrow: Honourable senators, that is a great
question, and I should have covered that.
There are far more guns per capita in Western Canada on the
farms than in the city of Toronto. Every farm in the community
has a gun. Almost 80 to 90 per cent are gun owners. In the North,

it is the same. In Toronto, it would probably be 2 per cent of
people. Of course the per capita rates of gun accidents and
suicides are higher there.
If you are trying to indicate to this house that. in fact, guns
cause suicides, I say that is nonsense. Guns do not cause family
violence. There are other issues. Youth commit suicide because
they have no hope left. That is what happens in a lot of cases,
certainly in the native community. It is not the gun that causes
the suicide. It is not the knife or the rope. It is not the car that
runs into the bridge that causes suicide. It is the drugs and the
alcohol and the loss of hope, things that are not covered in this
legisiation.
Senator Carstairs: Honourable senators, I have to ask one
more question. I would like to know why there are more deaths
among young men by suicide, despite the fact that more young
women attempt suicide than young men. Is that not a direct result
of the fact that young men, tragically, choose to use guns, which
are fatal. and young women choose alternative methods?
Senator Ghitter: You have no statistics to bear that out.
Senator Sparrow: Honourable senators, I have an answer to
that one, too. It does not matter whether or not the guns that are
used for suicides are registered. They will use the gun whether or
not it is registered. If the honourable senator is telling me that a
cabinet with glass on the front and a little lock on it will stop
them from getting the gun and committing suicide, I would say
that the honourable senator is fooling herself and fooling the
people. This is really a method of fooling Canadians into
believing that we are doing something about gun control and
crime in this country. It is not working. Suicide is not caused by
guns. It is caused by other social problems, and the registration
and the licensing of guns have absolutely no bearing on those
problems.
Hon. Gerry St. Germain: Honourable senators, I wish to
make a brief comment on this issue, although I do intend to enter
the debate on the main motion.
I compliment Senator Sparrow on his motion. I support this
motion on the basis of logic. Senator Sparrow has brought to this
debate straight logic and a common sense that reflects the areas
that we represent. the North and the rural and remote areas. It is
hard for people who live on Wellington Crescent, Southwest
Marine Drive, or Forest Hill in Toronto to understand what he is
talking about. I think Senator Oison fully understands. It is based
on pure logic. The people are trained, not formally through
courses that really do not mean anything, but through experience,
because of necessity and survival.
This argument is not being presented to speak against urban
communities. However, it is an argument that must be
understood. That is why we wanted so many of you to come out
to the hearings and travel to the North, to visit with Senator Watt
and Senator Adams and the rest of those who occupy that vast

November 21, 1995

Nove mber 21, 1995

SENATE DEBATES
SENATE DEBATES

80 per cent of the land mass that govemments which are opposed
to this legislation represent. No one wanted to come. Most were
too busy. Senators from every point of this nation are here to
deal with this bill, but it was not important enough to go to
Whitehorse. It was not important enough to go to the Beaufort
Sea. You did not have time. You were too busy. You just did not
understand. You do not want to understand because you do not
want to hear the other side.
Some of us live in rural communities. We may come to urban
communities and live in them, but we also live in another world.
We are just asking you to try to understand the logic that comes
with a motion like this. The Speaker, having grown up in this
environment, knows the impact that this type of legislation will
have on the Métis, the natives, and the ranchers. I can tell you. I
have spoken to them. I was there.
Some may think that certain senators are trying to undermine
this bill, but this is what we were told. What Senator Sparrow
said here today is what we heard day after day in our hearings.
These hearings were not partisan. I do not give a darn if it is a
Liberal bill or a Conservative bill; it is still a bad bill. I did not
agree with many of the provisions in Bill C-17, and they still
cannot be enforced in the Northwest Territories. However, I am
not here to talk partisanship.
This is logic, my friends. Please look at this bill for what it is
worth. Listen to the logic and the message. Believe me, there are
two sides to every story. Senator Sparrow has just transmitted an
important portion of one side, the side that has driven this
country and developed this country. It is the pioneers and the
people who have gone to the remote regions and taken the risks
who have made a great difference in our great nation.
The Hon. the Speaker: If no other senator wishes to speak on
the amendment, I will put the amendnent to a voice vote now. If
a standing vote is requested, it will be deferred until tomorrow at
5:30 p.m. Are honourable senators ready for the question?
An Hon. Senator: Question.
The Hon. the Speaker: Those in favour, please say "yea."
Some Hon. Senators: Yea.
The Hon. the Speaker: Those opposed, please say "nay."
Some Hon. Senators: Nay.
The Hon. the Speaker: In my opinion, the "nays" have it.
And two honourable senators having risen.

The Hon. the Speaker: I note the request for a standing vote.
It will be deferred until tomorrow at 5:30 p.m.
0(<2051f

We are now back to the main motion.

Hon. Terry Stratton: Honourable senators, I first want to
thank senators who travelled to Manitoba to attend the hearings
which we held at seven locations in that province. The legislation
before us today, Bill C-68. respecting firearms and other
weapons, has provoked a great deal of debate among Canadians
across the country.
As many senators will know, there is considerable opposition
to many parts of this legislation, particularly from residents of
my home province, Manitoba. A Southam poll conducted in late
May of this year indicated that 60 per cent of respondents in
Manitoba are opposed to this bill. Since this legislation was first
read in the House of Commons in February, and even before
then, I have received hundreds of letters in my office from across
Canada, representing both sides of this debate.
The majority of the letters I have received are from
Manitobans opposed to a universal firearms registration system. I
have met with individuals who are on both sides of this issue and
listened to their concerns. I chaired a committee of senators who
travelled throughout Manitoba to hear a broader expression of
views on Bill C-68. I feel strongly that, as senators, we have an
obligation to reach out to the communities we represent and
ensure that their views are heard in the Senate. Representing the
Manitoba region as I do, I believe that I have a good
understanding of where Manitobans stand on this issue.
Honourable senators, I have heard the thoughts of the
provincial government of Manitoba on this bill. It is no secret
that it is opposed te certain aspects of this bill. Representatives of
that government appeared before both the House of Commons
and the Senate standing committees reviewing this legislation
and presented their views on that matter.
The provincial government of Manitoba does not support a
universal firearms registration system for Canada, and for very
good reason: It believes, as do 1, that universal gun registration
will not deter the use of restricted or illegal firearms. Canada
already has a ban on certain weapons, and has very tough
registration requirements for handguns. Nevertheless, criminals
still manage to use these weapons, despite the fact that handguns
have been required te be registered since 1934.
Honourable senators, I am against spending millions of
taxpayers' dollars on a universal registration system which the
government has failed to prove will enhance public safety. In
fact, I have heard that the administrative burden of gun
registration will take police officers off the streets, and therefore
have a detrimental impact on the safety of our communities.
This is a real concern to many people. From testimony that has
been given at the hearings on this bill in Manitoba and in Ottawa,
I believe that many Canadians are not convinced that spending
millions of dollars on a gun registration system is the best way to
go. Many Canadians sincerely believe that this money would be
better spent in other ways, such as putting more police on the
streets, educating citizens on existing gun regulations and
enforcement of current regulations.

I should like to read to you an excerpt from a brief submitted
at the Manitoba hearings on Bill C-68 by the Association of
Women Shooters of Canada. who were not given the opportunity
to appear before the Standing Senate Committee on Legal and
Constitutional Affairs to express their views. This is what they
had to say:
If women's health and safety are truly of concern then
one might reasonably consider taking the enormous amount
of money that the federal government is so eager to spend
on universal firearm registration and use that money in ways
that actually will benefit women. For example, research on
breast cancer, treatment programs for abusive men, and
treatment programs for alcoholism (alcohol is almost always
involved in incidents of domestic violence). These are all
ways which will help women far more than additional
firearms legislation.
Honourable senators. at the root of crime and violence in our
society are many social problems. This message was delivered
loudly and clearly by many concerned citizens who appeared at
the Manitoba hearings on Bill C-68. There is a consensus that the
federal government should be introducing crime control
legislation rather than gun control legislation. Firearms are not
viewed as the major problem in many communities. Drugs,
alcohol and related difficulties such as poverty and hopelessness
are seen as being the root causes of the problems. These are some
of the real problems leading to crime and violence.
I believe that, in order to enhance public safety in Canada. the
federal government must deal with the social problems which
exist now. We need to look at ways of reducing the amounit of
violence on television. I am not an expert on how to do that, but
if you have watched some of the programs on television or in the
movie theatres, you know what I am talking about. That is what
the young kids see. Those young kids then grow up and commit
the violent crimes about which we all complain.
We need to place more emphasis on education. If we have
generation after generation of people living on welfare; if we
have generation after generation of people living without hope,
we will have violence no matter what we do with gun
registration. It will have no impact. Attack the real problem.
The Winnipeg Game and Fish Association said the following
in its brief at the Manitoba hearings on Bill C-68:
No significant evidence is in hand to show that any
amount of gun registration applied against law-abiding gun
owners has, or ever will, produce a safer public or crime
prevention results. The justice system and police should be
dealing with real criminals and criminal activity, and leave
law-abiding citizens alone.
Honourable senators. Canada has a long history of effective
gun control policies. and Canadian law has always recognized
that legitimate reasons exist for the possession of firearms.
especially in the more remote areas of the country where guns

1Senatoi Sinatton 1

are often required to hunt for food or to control predators and
other animals, as Senator Sparrow has very clearly pointed out.
During the recent public hearings on this bill in Manitoba, the
committee of senators travelled to both rural and urban
communities in the province. During those hearing, the different
realities which exist for rural and urban residents were made
clear to me. Many witnesses testified that this legislation reflects
urban needs, and reflects a lack of understanding of rural
residents.
During the Manitoba hearings, rural resident after rural
resident expressed disbelief at Justice Minister Allan Rock's
comments regarding who should own guns. Many witnesses
cited Minister Rock as stating that he believes the only firearms
in Canada should be in the possession of the military and the
police. This comment clearly shows a lack of understanding of
farmers. hunters, trappers, competitive shooters and others.
Many farmers are worried about the federal government
coming to seize their weapons, which are often used to kill
varmints that carry rabies and other diseases, in order to protect
their livestock. A farmer from outside of Brandon told us the
following true story at the Brandon hearings: He had a problem
with skunks in his chicken coop, which contained some exotic
prize chickens. His gun was locked up in a cabinet. and the
ammunition was in another location. A skunk got into the
chicken coop and, by the time he had unlocked his gun and got
the ammunition, the skunk had got away.
Some would say, "Three cheers for the skunk." However. there
was more than one skunk; the farmer, in fact, had an infestation.
Over the course of the summer, there were 10 skunks and one
fox. Needless to say, the gun was no longer in the bouse under
lock and key. The farmer broke the law; he had to do so in order
to protect his livelihood.
Further to that, concerns were raised at the hearings that this
legislation would make criminals of law-abiding citizens, which
would be very unfair. It would appear that it is not politically
correct at this time to own a firearm.
It is disturbing that one of the most prevalent statements made
during the Manitoba hearings was that individuals would not
comply with this law. Sidney McKay of the Swampy Cree Tribal
Council of The Pas. representing 10.000 people, stated
unequivocally that they will not obey such a law. You are on
treacherous grounds when you pass laws that the public will not
obey.
0

(2100)

Honourable senators, one of the amendments which is before
us deals with the wording of section 117(15) of the bill. This
section permits the minister to add any firearms to the prohibited
category except those which, in the opinion of the Governor in
Council. are reasonable for use in Canada lor hunting or sporting
purposes. The concern which has been raised here is that this
clause gives too much power to the minister, and that any
decision by the minister to add a firearm to the prohibited
categ ory on the basis of this opinion as to its suitability for use in
hunting or for sporting purposes is not subject to judicial review.

November 21, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

The wording of this clause has sparked enormous concern.
Concerns were expressed by a vast majority of witnesses who
appeared before the committee at the Manitoba hearings,
including the Selkirk Game & Fish Association, The Pas
Firearms Association, the Dauphin Handgun Club and many
other concerned groups and citizens. Quite clearly, all of these
witnesses asked that the Senate try to have this clause changed. I
fully support this proposed amendment.
Honourable senators, there are some aspects of the bill which I
do support. I believe that enhanced control of crime should be
supported, and I agree with the measures in this bill which would
work towards that end. For example, I support increasing
sentences for people who use a firearm in committing a crime. I
am also in support of the provisions of the bill which control the
possession of firearms by those who have been convicted of an
indictable offence.
These are the areas of the bill which I support. However, I
want to make it very clear that the package of amendments which
we have proposed will do a great deal to improve the legislation
before us. As a senator, I see it as my job to deliver to Canadians
the best legislation possible. The changes being proposed will
substantially improve this bill. It is for this reason that I intend to
support these amendments.
Hon. Landon Pearson: Honourable senators, ever since I
arrived in the Senate a year ago, I have been aware of the
controversial nature of Bill C-68, which was then in the drafting
process. How could I not be? The issue of gun control raises such
very strong emotions. All along, I paid close attention to the
arguments which have been raised, both for the bill and against
it, so that I could better understand the issues which seem so
important to so many Canadians.
The question I posed to myself was: Where does all the
emotion that surrounds this issue come from?
I believe it comes more from the symbolic nature of the debate
than from its details. Symbols that have power are those that
focus people's deepest feelings, especially when these emotions
are related to their personal identity. It seems to me that the force
of the gun control controversy derives from the fact that guns,
because they are designed to kilt, have come to symbolize power,
ultimate power, the power of life and death. There are those who
do not want this power to be curbed, not because they are
criminals but because it has come to have such deep personal
meaning for them. There are those who feel equally strongly that
it must be curbed because they have directly experienced its
misuse.
Let me reiterate, honourable senators, that I have no objection
to the legitimate use of firearms for hunting, for culling, for
protection, for the armed forces, for the police. It is not the

2303

killing of animals that disturbs me; I am not a vegetarian. It is the
killing for pleasure; the unjustified and unjustifiable taking of
life, and the use of guns to threaten, intimidate and humiliate.
Today, honourable senators, I would like to give voice to those
who have spoken in support of Bill C-68; those who have written
to me personally or to the committee; and those who have come
forward as witnesses to the need for greater gun control because
they have experienced in one way or another the misuse, by
accident or intention, of a weapon that kilts. These include
women, health professionals, city administrators. the police,
individuals who feel disempowered by the gun lobby, children
and youth. Please listen to what they say for they, too, are
ordinary Canadians.
Let the women speak first. Linda Taylor from the Children's
Home in Winnipeg writes:
I do not think Bill C-68 is the answer: it is only a
beginning. It presents a message to Canadians that
ownership of guns is a responsibility, and one to be taken
seriously. Perhaps there could be better bills. Certainly there
could be far stronger ones. As a woman living in Winnipeg,
I would support that... Bill C-68, however, is a small and
necessary first step if we are serious about creating a society
free of violence.
[Translation]

Mrs. Simone Baron, the mother of a victim, wrote us from
Rosemont, Quebec:
I am the mother of a girl who was a victim, at the age of
19, of a criminal act involving a firearm... Bill C-68 is good
and we support it very strongly. It should have been passed
long ago.
[English]

Jennifer Allen Simons writes from Vancouver:
In the interest of public safety, I ask you to give Bill C-68
speedy passage through the Senate... This bill does not
impede any lawful use of a firearm. It does, however,
provide a tool for intervention where there is a reason for
concern. Surely the prevention of any death or injury
justifies the adoption of this legislation.
The YWCA of Canada writes on behalf of the National
Council of Women; women's shelters and transition houses in
Alberta, Saskatchewan and Ontario; the Action Committees on
the Status of Women in Manitoba and Saskatchewan; and many
other women's groups:

The YWCA supports the legitimate use of firearms for
hunting, sporting activities and law enforcement. It is the
misuse of firearms in domestic violence that poses the
greatest threat to women and children. We believe the key
elements of the legislation will have a significant impact on
domestic homicide and women's and children's safety.
June Mitchell writes from Regina:
I am aware that a resolution opposing the new gun law
was passed in the Saskatchewan legislature. I am also aware
that less than half the MLAs chose to be in the legislature to
vote on that resolution. I believe there are many citizens like
myself who support this new gun law which was promised,
and has been passed by our democratically elected
government.
Of the many mayors and municipalities who have written, I
have chosen to quote a very recent letter from Barbara Hall, the
Mayor of Toronto:
I understand that the vast majority of gun owners are
law-abiding citizens. Clearly, access to firearms is only part
of the problem. Restrictions on firearms alone will not solve
the problem of crime and violence in our communities.
However, it is a significant part of the solution. The firearms
restrictions, registration and minimum sentencing
requirements as outlined in Bill C-68, along with other
investments in our communities will ensure a more
sustainable, safer urban environment.
Many health care professionals appeared before the
committee, each one with a separate tragedy to report. As
individuals who actually sec the blood and guts, they aIl support
the bill.
Anna Lovasik and Kathy Belton from the Injury Prevention
Centre of the University of Alberta Hospitals in Edmonton write:
The cost of gunshot wounds to the health care system
is $70 million per year. Approximately 40% of the women
killed by their husbands are shot, usually with legallyowned guns. Bill C-68 would provide more tools for early
intervention in domestic disputes, allowing police to remove
guns where there is a risk.
A group of public health and safety professionals from Quebec
wrote in an open letter last week:
As representatives of Quebec's major public health and
safety experts...we are unequivocally opposed to any
amendments at this point in the process. AIl the experts in
crime prevention, public health, domestic violence and
criminology who testified before the Senate legislative
committee have called on the Senate to pass the bill as soon
as possible. without amendments.... You must therefore be

I Senator

Pearson |

aware of the tremendous importance of this bill for the
families of the victims of the Polytechnique massacre. as
well as ail Montrealers. If this legislation is still not passed
on the sixth anniversary of the December 6th tragedy. we
expect an outcry of national proportions.
From the New Brunswick Nurses Union-Syndicat des
infirmiers et des infirmières du Nouveau-Brunswick, I heard:
We also understand that this Bill is not the whole
solution, but it will help prevent injury and death. As health
care professionals, we support Police Chiefs. criminal
justice experts and women's groups in calling for stronger
control on guns.
Law enforcement representatives, both union and
management, appeared before us to support Bill C-68. I quote
from a recent letter from the Canadian Association of Chiefs of
Police:
We appreciate that individual members of the Senate of
Canada may have different views on the details surrounding
Bill C-68 and we understand and respect the emotion and
concerns raised in the debate. Nevertheless, we wish to
impress upon you and your colleagues the importance of
this bill to policing and law enforcement and to the
communities to which we are accountable. We therefore
repeat our request to the Senate of Canada to pass this Bill
without amendment.

This bill has also received support from many individuals. For
example, George Richards of Castlegar, British Columbia writes:
This bill has received support from many groups: the
police, women's organizations. emergency room doctors,
suicide counsellors. and a large majority of those Canadians
living in cities. In addition, there are those who have a
general antipathy to firearms and violence for a variety of
reasons; engendered, in my case, by service in the Canadian
Army during the second World War.
From Don Mitchell in Moose Jaw, I heard:
There are many of us in Saskatchewan who feel
disenfranchised by the position taken by a majority of
provincial politicians... The gun owners lobby obviously has
a loud voice... but it does not represent a large constituency
of informed and caring people at the community level who
continue to view gun controls as a sound and progressive
measure.
Like many members of the Legal and Constitutional Affairs
Committee, I listened with particular interest to representations
from members of aboriginal communities. There is no question
that many of them are unhappy with the bill. and I have donc my

November 21, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

best to understand their reasons. I am not proud of our sorry
history with respect to our aboriginal peoples, especially our
arbitrary impositions on their culture and their way of life.
However, I believe those who told us that they do not want to be
regarded as different from other Canadians with regard to federal
legislation. In addition to the problem of aboriginal rights, which
I believe are protected in the bill, the prime issue appears to be
the question of consultation and regulation.
I see the ongoing and proposed discussions with the aboriginal
community with respect to the administration of the law as an
occasion for some positive community development, especially
for young people. We need to do everything possible for the
young. As Doug Cuthand, who I believe is an aboriginal person,
wrote in the Saskatoon Star Phoenix:
About 60 per cent of suicides in Indian country are carried
out by firearms. This is disturbing and indicates the need for
more effective gun
control legislation and
enforcement....The push for gun control came from the
cities where crime is perceived to be on the increase. But, in
reality, a person walking down a street in Montreal, Toronto
or Vancouver is in little danger of being shot. Our people in
Indian country have a far greater chance of being killed or
wounded by firearms.
Children are especially sensitive to the currents of emotions
swirling about them. While they do not have the sophistication to
understand the complexities of the issues, they often go right to
the heart of the matter. Seven-year-old Kathryn Hole wrote to us
from St. Albert, Alberta. She said, "I think of guns as violence
and cruelty. People should not get guns because if they are drunk
they can kill themselves. They kill other people with them and
they would sell them to create more violence. I want this to
stop."
One can only wonder what Kathryn has already seen in her
young life.
[Translation]

Finally, I would like to quote Jeunesse du Monde Montréal.
The young people of Jeunesse du Monde Montréal, aged
12 to 25, wish to express their support of the gun control
bill. ... Young people are greatly concerned with violence

and we feel that controlling firearms could make a
contribution to improving our society and the relationship
between humans and nature. We are inundated on all sides
-

by the media in particular -

often involving guns.

with gratuitous violence,

2305

[English]

Honourable senators, during the months that Bill C-68 has
been before us, I have examined it with the greatest of care.
While I appreciate the sentiments of those who have spoken
against it, particularly the concerns and anxieties of our
aboriginal peoples, they have not convinced me that the bill is an
unwarranted invasion of their personal lives leading to the
destruction of their livelihood. On the contrary, I see some
provisions of the bill as an opportunity for those who really need
guns to demonstrate to the rest of us when the use of a gun is
legitimate and when it is not.
For the aboriginal peoples, I see the process of creating
culturally sensitive regulations as an admirable way to teach
those of us who are not aboriginal what it means to truly respect
the natural environment in which we live.
I will vote against the amendments which, in my view, do
nothing to improve the bill, and for this bill as it stands because I
am convinced it will make life in Canada safer, more respectful,
more civil and more humane.
Hon. David Tkachuk: Honourable senators, the debate on
Bill C-68 has formed some interesting political coalitions. For
example, I will quote from 'Feminism and Gun Control' by Pat
Loré, a former alderwoman in Saskatoon for over a decade, now
a member of the legislative assembly for the New Democratic
Party. She represents Saskatoon-Southeast. She is a noted
feminist, and I will spend a bit of my speaking time quoting from
her submission to myself, Senator Gustafson and Senator
Sparrow in Saskatoon. She brings a unique perspective to the
issue of Bill C-68. She said:
Now the easiest thing to do is just stay out of an
emotional and distorted controversy. But I'm tired of the
tyranny that passes for informed debate in this country.
Shallow analysis and selective distortion of statistics
painting men as brutes will not stop violence. It amazes me
that a belief system like feminism, a philosophy of
tolerance, now seems to represent intolerance. Is there no
room in feminist circles for intellectual discourse about
practical solutions, not extremes?
As a feminist, my first reaction to Rock's gun proposals
was "Good on you." Then I investigated a tad further and
discovered a modern version of Canada's "two solitudes."
Contrast the reaction of the panicked big city dwellers with
those you might call TRUC (The Rural Unsophisticated
Canadians). They think "guns-ducks-lifestyle". Urban
people, particularly feminists, think "guns-crime-violence."
But how many of them have analyzed the practicality of
Rock's proposals? They're all so busy saluting the gun
control flag that they ignore the PR sham it really is.

Gun registration isn't. and hasn't been, a panacea for
violence. There is a major danger this version may push
some people from the proud Canadian position to gun
ownership as a right. I don't want to see any further
Americanization of this country. But it could happen. You
can only prod a buffalo so far before it turns and stampedes.
Of course we need to get guns off the street. But we need
workable solutions to violence. Not just feel-good populist
fixes that push the problem further out of sight. but not out
of range.
Legislation that creates civil disobedience and drives a
further wedge into an emotional issue is counter-productive.
It merely adds to bloated bureaucracies, off-loads costs onto
provinces, takes valuable time from the police...
No guns are manufactured in Canada. Since 1979, every
gun is either smuggled into the country, or it comes across
the border legally and is recorded at the point of wholesale
and retail distribution. We already have a comprehensive
way to record gun ownership. But nobody has bothered
telling the clerks at Canadian Tire to slip the data on-line to
their friendly police service so it can be cross-referenced
with other information.
Many arguments have been presented on Bill C-68, but I will
try to reflect the presentations of the ordinary and wonderful
Canadians who made presentations to senators who took the time
to listen to what they said.
I will say a little bit about the politics of the bill. Pat Lorjé is
right. This is not a bill about gun control. There is massive
support in Canada for gun control. I know of no one, not even
one among ail the people who came to see us, who is against gun
control. Why, then, are we having this debate? Why are millions
of Canadians who support gun control and who own firearms so
vehement in their opposition to Bill C-68?
Bill C-68 is not about saving the lives of people who have lost
loved ones. That is part of the problem with the politics of this
bill. People who support gun control are told that because they do
not support gun registration, they are somehow involved in the
deaths of Canadians caused by guns. and that there is some sort
of violence inflicted on people because guns are not registered.
These are the same people who came to us and told us that they
support gun control.
0

(2120)

Why is there this political turbulence? Why is there this great
division in our country over an issue about which everyone
agrees. gun control? Because it is Bill C-68; because Bill C-68
does not save any lives and will not save any lives. I resent the
fact that the presenters oh Bill C-68 use violence in our society as
the reason for this bill. particularly its gun registration aspect.

I Senator Tkachuk

|

They say that those who oppose the gun registration aspect
somehow do not have the same concerns.
Proposing a bill which potentially criminalizes people who are
law abiding is in itself a violent act. Proposing a bill that the
Prince Albert Tribal Council, which represents 17.000 people.
including ail those who live on reserves in Northern
Saskatchewan. has said they will not obey, is, in itself. a violent
act. Proposing a bill that causes ordinary, normal, law-abiding
Canadians to say that they will not register their guns is in itself
a violent act. Proposing a bill that divides rural Canadians from
urban Canadians, and those living on Indian reserves from white
people is, in itself, a violent act.
Who the heck do we in the Senate think we are? We are
legislators and parliamentarians. As the friendly senator from
Nova Scotia said. "Who do we think we are, passing a bill that
causes these great divisions?"
I am not a gun owner. However, I am acquainted with guns.
We sold them in our family's general store. I do not have
memories of these firearms as instruments of violence, nor were
they. People had them because they used them and, in most
cases. because they needed them. No one carried them around.
You leamed to use them the same way you learned to use an axe
or a knife. My negative image of firearms comes from television
and from the cities. It is of bad people using violent means to
achieve violent ends. where people who live in suburbs hire their
guns. They fill the streets with police, ail with guns. They have
access to 911 and are 10 minutes away from the local man with a
gun.
Up in Northern B.C., in Yukon and the northern part of
Saskatchewan. there are no police. There is no one protecting the
people there from the cougars in the Kootenays, as we were told,
of which there are some 200 now, because you cannot kill them.
One woman told us of watching her child being attacked by a
cougar. By the time she could get her gun out of the box and gain
access to her bullets, the child was dead. That is a stupid law,
anyway.
City people tell rural people that it is not okay to carry a rifle
from one place to another place. Gee whiz. you cannot go to a
community meeting, you may have a gun in your truck. At
community meetings in Montreal, there are guns everywhere.
We have this political debate going on over a bill which is
called a gun control bill, something which we ail support. Why
did they write the bill in such a way as to cause this great
division?
In order to acquire a firearm in Canada, you must take the
firearms safety education training program. You must apply for a
firearms acquisition certificate, which includes 35 questions. You
are even asked if you are happily married, if you are divorced or
not, or whether you are bankrupt. It requires two references. two
photos and $50. The police check records, interview references,
neighbours, employees and spouses. The firearms acquisition
certificate is issued after a mandatory 28-day wait.

November 21, 1995
November2l. 1995

SENATE DEBATES

SENATE DEBATES

Then you must purchase the pistol. You must leave it at the
dealer. You must then join the pistol club. You must apply to the
police to register the pistol and fill out form C-300. You must
then transport the pistol to the police where the permit is issued.
You must then complete registration of the pistol and leave the
pistol with the police.
Step number 11 involves having the registration certificate
issued by Ottawa, which is form C-306. You must then obtain a
permit to transport the pistol home, which is form C-301. You
must apply to carry the pistol to the gun club, which is
form C-302. Your police record is checked, and a permit, which
is good for one year, is issued. You may now go target shooting.

reject the bill. Representatives of the tourism ministry, the
wildlife federation, Ducks Unlimited, gun clubs and competitive
shooters from local gun clubs to Olympians have said, "Reject
the bill." Cattle associations, trappers, outfitters - the majority
of the population - have said the same thing.
I do not know about the rest of you, but I am a Western
Canadian senator. I was not elected. I was lucky enough to be
appointed to the Senate. There is the same number of senators
from the Maritimes as there is from Western Canada. There is the
same number from Ontario as there is from Quebec. In all, there
are 24 senators from each of those regions.
0

Steps one to four must be completed up to the acquisition
certificate stage to obtain a long gun. Then you may purchase the
rifle or shotgun, take the hunting course, pass an exam, purchase
a hunting license and go hunting according to provincial
regulations. That takes only three to six months.
Would someone who supports this bill tell me how all those
gangs in Montreal, Toronto, Edmonton and Saskatoon get their
guns?

2307
2307

(2131)>

Senator Carstairs: There are 30 in Atlantic Canada.
Senator Tkachuk: There are six more from Newfoundland.
Boy, they have a lot down there.
It seems to me that since I do not have to be elected, perhaps I
have some reason for being here, and that is to represent my
region, to somehow fulfil a mandate. Otherwise, perhaps, I
should pack it in and run for election because -

Senator Berntson: They plan ahead.
The Hon. the Speaker: I am sorry, honourable senator, but

Senator Tkachuk: How do they get their guns? Did they take
the course? Did they register their weapons? Did they fill out the
forms? I do not think so. How did they get their guns? The only
people we are registering here are people who have owned guns
all their lives and who have never done anything wrong. Those
are the ones who are left. They are the people on the farms who
have owned guns all their lives and who have never done
anything wrong. All those guys in Montreal, Edmonton and
Toronto who are shooting people over drugs are to blame for this.
They all have guns. Do honourable senators know why? Because
it is easier to purchase an illegal gun than it is to purchase a legal
one.

your time is up.

I would be a happy gun smuggler with this kind of gun law
because then, even people who would never even think of
breaking the law will just look at this and say, "I can get a gun in
30 days. What does it hurt?" It takes 15 minutes to buy a gun on
any street in Saskatoon.

Senator Tkachuk: As a Western Canadian senator, I have an
obligation to listen. Even if I believed in this bill, I would have a
tough time. I do not think I could do it. Who the heck am I to say
to all of the attorneys general, "Oh, you guys are wrong; I am
right. You guys do not know anything. You must go out every
four years and be elected by ordinary folks, and I get to stay here
and vote the way I want." I do not think so.

During the referendum campaign, the Prime Minister assured
Canadians that all was well. He risked the entire country on his
wrong political instinct. This bill reflects the wrong political
instinct about Western and rural Canada. The large majority of
elected municipal, provincial and federal politicians in Western
Canada have said, "Do not do this." In my province, every
municipality passed unanimous resolutions saying not to do this.
They are not crazy. The attorneys general of three Prairie
provinces, Yukon, the Northwest Territories and the chiefs of all
the reserves asked us to reject this bill. That included Liberals
and members of the NDP and the Conservative Party in
provincial legislatures in Western Canada. They all asked us to

Senator Tkachuk: May I have another couple of minutes?
Senator Sparrow: I have an appointment at twelve o'clock.
Could you be finished by then?
Senator Tkachuk: I will be finished by then.
The Hon. the Speaker: Is leave granted?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.

One last point: Do we have a crime wave going on in
museums? What is happening at the gun clubs that I do not know
about; and on the trapping trails and the cattle trails? Is there
something that I do not know about happening at the hunting
camps, at competitions at the Pan-Am Games, the Olympics, and
guiding expeditions in northern British Columbia? Is there a
crime wave going on? Are people being shot? Are duck hunters
shooting each other? Are gun collectors amassing firearms to
overthrow the government? Are those flintlocks awaiting a crime
wave?

There are more guns in Saskatchewan per capita than there are
in Toronto and Montreal. but at two o'clock in the morning I
would rather walk in any part of the province: in any small town
where everyone bas a gun, on 20th Street, on 2nd Avenue,
instead of walking down these streets that have no guns but.
instead, have hired guns and policemen running around.
I do not understand this legislation. Are inheritors of weapons
going nuts when their parents die? Do they go on a shooting
spree'? Are they saying. "Gee, my parents died: I've got a gun: I
am going to go nuts today." That is what this bill is about.
Are trap shooters assaulting Rosedale or Westmount? I do not
think so.
In aIl these situations, everyone has a firearm. I do not know
how many of you have been to a shooting range, but they do not
have any accidents on shooting ranges. I tried to find out if there
had been any such accidents, and I found that there had been
none. Everyone has a gun, but nobody is dead. How can that be?
Guns do not kill people: people kill people. That is the
problem the Liberal government should be addressing. The
problem is about drug addiction and alcoholism and gang
violence and broken homes and family abuse, and no one is
attending to those problems. This is the great scam, the great
escape. We will impose gun registration to keep people quiet for
a while, and we will allow aIl the other violence to continue.
Hon. Richard J. Stanbury: Listening to the debate so far
makes me think that we are talking about two entirely different
bills. The interpretation of what the bill says on one side is
completely different from the interpretation of what it says on the
other side.

from emotional or mental stress, or alcohol or drug-induced
conditions. I have always assumed that society is entitled to
know who has guns and when those protecting society are likely
to be inhibited by the possession of guns by others.
The first time I came into face-to-face contact with the issue of
gun control was during the regime of Prime Minister Mulroney.
He had a young Minister of Justice for whom I had a good deal
of respect. Her name was Kim Campbell. She brought forth a bill
creating a fairly comprehensive firearms regime. Ail of the
things that Senator Tkachuk was complaining about, the
procedure you have to go through to get a gun, came from
Bill C-17. That was passed by the other place, and it found its
way into the Standing Senate Committee on Legal and
Constitutional Affairs, on which both Senator Spivak and I sat. I
welcomed it, as did the Progressive Conservative members of the
committee, including the Conservative chairman, Senator Nathan
Nurgitz, now Mr. Justice Nurgitz of the Manitoba Supreme
Court.
We did our usual, in those days, non-partisan study of the bill
and agreed to pass it without amendment, but we instructed our
chairman to accompany that action with a letter which strongly
recommended other steps, the most substantial of which was gun
registration. That was the main recommendation of our
committee and of the Senate at that time. I believe that al] of the
Liberal and Conservative members on that committee endorsed
that report, and the letter which accompanied it, signed by our
most eminent chairman. I do not recall a single voice being
raised against it as it received third reading in this house. There is
now this great uproar on this very point. I could speculate as to
the cause and source of the uproar.
e

(214(»

I have a rural background and I have a military background, so
I quite understand the productive and practical uses of guns. I can
understand the attraction, and even the obsession with guns that
some people develop. However, it would never have occurred to
me on the farm or in the army that anyone would object to
having guns in their possession recorded.

It is always legitimate for those in a business affected by a bill
to lobby against it. Of course it is legitimate for those who
seriously believe that registration will somehow impinge upon
their legitimate use of target or hunting firearms to do their best
to keep their sport or their means of gaining a living as unfettered
as possible, within the limits and within the interests of public
safety. However, the pile of misinformation that has been
dissipated among the Canadian public, and has, through yellow
journals, professional agitators and biased newsletters, found its
way into the multitude of missives sent to the members of this
house, and in many cases by well-meaning but emotionally
charged people, has been downright scandalous. Some of it is so
ridiculous as to be funny, but most of it is intended to prejudice
our legisiative process, and that must be taken seriously.

I have always known that the purpose of a gun was to kilt, as
painlessly as possible. a quarry as game or as food. I have also
known that there are those who misuse guns to kill or maim other
human beings or themselves, or to threaten to kill or maim others
- neighbours, wives or children. or anyone else with whom they
differ. I have always known that there are people in the hands of
whom possession of a gun is not safe, such as those suffering

Some of it has a foreign tinge. Some say, "I have the
constitutional right to carry a gun." Most people should know
that that is part of the American Constitution. In Canada, we
recognize that a democratic government is formed by citizens to
ensure the security of the person. Our Constitution imposes on
the government the obligation to preserve peace, order and good
government.

Senator Tkachuk has asked us whether we think that aIl those
people who are against the bill are crazy. Are ail the people who
are in favour of the bill crazy? There are many more people for
the bill than against it.
Honourable senators, if I may. I wish to make a brief
contribution to the debate.

I Senatot

Tkachuk |

November 21, 1995

Novemberl,
1995SENATE
DEBATES

People may feel that governrnent has gone too far in regulating
diverse aspects of Canadians lives. but surely this is flot the issue
on which to take that stand. Tbis is the core of goverinent
responsibility. Violent crime has gone too far to allow the
Canadian government to fail to take steps to regulate guns, and,
fearmongering aside, that is ail that this bill wiIl do.
Honourable senators, I really cannot summon up great
sympatby for those wbo are basing their objectives on rnyths, or
wbo say it will be too rnuch trouble in the interests of public
safety to list up to 10 guns on a postcard and send the card
and $10 into the local registry.
I do have real concernis for the aboriginal people whose culture
has inculcated the principles of family and community care and
the use of firearms, but those concerns have been sbared by the
Minister of Justice. He has already undertaken extensive
consultations witb aboriginal communities as to the best way to
develop regulations which do flot infringe on their constitutional
rights, and methods of implementing the law to meet their needs.
Stili, he and they must acknowledge that misuse of firearmns and
the tragedy that flows from them is flot the exclusive preserve of
the non-native population.

2309
20

anyone would object to adrnitting to having guns and baving
their possession recorded. I still do flot believe that. When 1 was
on the farrn, we had a gun. If someone said we should register
that gun. wby would we have objected? We were flot afraid to
say that we had a gun, and we had no resistance to baving it
registered. This is just a matter of recording that you have the
gun.
What was your second question, senator?
Senator Sparrow: Is crime worse now than it was in the past?
Senator Stanbury: Honourable senators, the fact is that the
process in Bill C-68 bas been goîng on for 30 or 40 years. The
process goes back to 1981, and there was a gun control bill
before tbat. It is gradually coming to be understood by legislators
and the public that there is a need for a greater knowledge of
wbere guns are located, and who bas them. That is what the
cornmittee decided when they deait witb Bill C-17. If a Liberal
goverfment had flot brought this legislation forward, it would
have been brought forward by a Conservative govemnment. Kim
Carnpbell was already preparing the legislation to do exactly
wbat we are talking about today.

Honourable senators, the purpose of guns is to kilt. The misuse
of guns to kilt, rnairn and threaten is one of the most dangerous
challenges to the peace, order and good governrnent of our
society. As such, our govemnment. with tbe massive support of
our people, bas no alternative but to take the measures contained
in Bill C-68 as a matter of public safety.

Senator Sparrow: Do you know what bappened to Kirn
Campbell?

Honourable senators, I will vote to approve Bill C-68 witbout
amendment.

Senator St. Germain: Honourable senators, I rise tonigbt
because I think there may be some doubt as to wbere I stand on
this issue. I want to make sure I arn off the fence, especially for
Senator Carstairs and otbers wbo may not know exactly where I
stand.

Senator Sparrow: Would the bonourable senator permit two
questions?
Senator Stanbnry: Certainly.
Senator Sparrow: First, in your initial remarks, you said you
see no reason why people would mind admitting they have a gun.
I would tbink those people wbo legitimately own a gun - there
may be sorne exceptions - have no concern about adrnitting
they have a gun. Every farmer in my country admits be has a
gun. People wbo use guns in crime are the ones wbo will not
admit they have a gun. Would you agree with that? You have
been in Turtleford, have you flot? You know the areas I am
talking about. I am asking you if you believe that the reason there
is opposition to this bill is that people are sornehow biding their
guns frorn the rest of the population?
Second, you talk about the govemnment need for gun control
now. Is this need any more severe than it was 5, 10, 20 or
50 years ago? Is there any greater crime now that a licensing
regime would stop?
Senator Stanbury: Honourable senators, in answer to my
honourable friend's first question, I said that I did flot believe

Senator Stanbury: Yes, I do. However, I doubt that her
passage of gun control legislation was the reason for ber
downfall.

Senator Stanbury began by saying that he figured there must
be two entirely different bills. Wbat we are dealing witb, though,
are two entirely different worlds. If you live on Wellington
Crescent in Forest Hill, or if you live in Aklavik, there is a major
difference.
Honourable senators, we came to tbis place to represent ail
Canadians. Somcwbcre along the way, I believe that perhaps wc
have lost sight of the fact that we represent aIl Canadians, those
in Aklavik, those in Willow Bunch, Saskatchewan, and other
places in this great country.
Senator Stanbury began bis speech by saying that he bas bad
military experience. Honourable senators, so have I. 1 spent five
years in tbe military, and I spent about five-and-a-balf years as a
police officer, therefore I do not stand bere inexperienced in the
world of guns and violence. I spent montbs undercover in
Vancouver with the drug community. I was an undercover agent
in narcotics and various other areas of police work. I think I
know a little bit - flot much, but a little bit - wben it cornes to
dealing with violence.

First. honourable senators, I want to state to all honourable
senators that I am a strong supporter of gun control. Bill C-68, in
my view. though. is not gun control - it is gun registration. A
bureaucracy will be imposed on law-abiding citizens.
Honourable senators. I also support the safety and storage
aspects of this bill. I think this is what distinguishes us from
other societies in that we exercise a high degree of safety and
control within our society. If I believed for one second that
Bill C-68, as drafted, would improve the control of guns, I would
be the first one to vote for it. If I believed that the registration
portion of the legislation would do anything, I would be front and
centre in supporting Bill C-68. However, I do support the
criminal enforcement aspects of Bill C-68 because I think it is
most important that we tighten our laws to impede those who
would defy our laws.

I also respect the elected place in our bicameral system of
Parliament. It is in that spirit that I support amendments to the
legislation. I was shocked by the attitude of the minister who felt
his bill was perfect. I have been around this place long enough,
honourable senators, to know that nothing here is perfect. In spite
of how great or how eloquent or how well-educated or how
experienced one is, there is always room for improvement. I
believe a minister who would not entertain. or even consider, any
amendments is remiss in his or her duties.
To a degree, there is some intellectual dishonesty regarding
gun registration when people say it will reduce crime and control
criminals. I do not believe that it will.
If the minister and those who support him were to be really
honest, do you know what they would be asking for? They would
be asking that we ban all firearms other than for the police and
the military. I do not know what the result of that would be in our
society. but I do think that would have more credence than
asserting that the registration of the firearms of law-abiding
citizens will make a difference, because if all the guns we have in
this country were to be registered, they would all still exist in
their present form. As Senator Sparrow and others have said here
today and on other occasions, it would make no difference
because criminals would not register their guns anyway.
What difference would it make with respect to suicides? I have
heard so many times that suicide would be reduced if all guns
were registered. What difference would it make if every gun
were registered in the Northwest Territories? Theoretically, this
bill will cause everyone to send in a little slip to register their
guns. When a registered gun owner reaches such a low point that
he or she wants to end his or her life, registration will do nothing
to stop them.
The Marc Lépines of our world will not go away because of
registration. They will still be there, front and centre, because no
govemment can legislate against insanity. We will always have
those in our society who will be dangerous. I do not believe that

1Senatoi

St Gerimaini

gun registration, in any way, shape or form. will eliminate those
people who become violent.
I do wish the minister had been honest and stuck to his guns
when he said he believed that only the police and the military
should have guns. Then he would have had some credibility with
me. Then I could possibly believe that he was really committed
to reducing violence in our society.
I would hope that the families of victims of violent crimes in
this country are not used in the political agenda to pursue any
kind of legislation. It is not fair to misrepresent the facts in that
manner.
As most honourable senators know, I travelled with several
senators across this country to hear what Canadians had to say
about this bill. I apologize to Senator Prud'homme for not
making him aware of the travels that we undertook; he would
have accompanied us. However. we did hear. in the western
provinces and in the north, what Canadians had to say on this
issue. It is regrettable that the meetings were boycotted by those
who support Bill C-68 because, as I said carlier, if someone
could point out to me how gun registration would reduce crime,
I would change my position and my views on this matter.
We did hear from school teachers, farmers, trappers, outfitters.
that what we need in our society more than anything is
education. We need the removal of violence from our media. We
need to work with and build on the family unit. These are the
issues which were brought forward to Senators Tkachuk.
Stratton. Carney, Lucier, Lawson and others who were with us.
These are the concerns that will make a significant change in our
society.
We heard from our aboriginal community. We have, as a
society. donc things to these people lor which we should all be
very ashamed. I went and lived with the Inuit on the Beaufort
Sea. I slept in a sleeping bag on the floor of one of their hunting
cabins, which I shared with a family of seven. I spent the day
with them. I saw how they lived. I did not want to come back
here and just say that I believe I know how they live. I spent time
with them.
I spent time with the Dene Nation, with Chief Bill Erasmus. I
spent time with the Minister of Justice. Steven Kakfwi. in the
Northwest Territories and with his people. I spoke to no native
people, men or women. who were in favour of this legislation
with the sole exception of Senator Marchand. He is the only
native person with whom I have been in contact who supports
this bill.
As I have pointed out before in this place, we have forced
these people off their traditional lands. We placed them on
reserves. We virtually persecuted them. One native at the Dene
Nation meeting said to me: "Your white community should have
practised gun control 150 to 200 years ago when they were
killing all of us." When Senator Spivak talks about the need for
gun control. I would point out to her that that is when it was
needed.

November 21, 1995

November 21. 1995

SENATE DEBATES

SENATE DEBATES

We took their children and put them in residential schools. We
had people running these facilities who sexually and physically
abused their children. We told those native children that it was
shameful to remember their culture or to speak their own
language. We went one step further: We established the
Department of Indian Affairs and Northern Development, and
created a social welfare state. We removed from them every
single ounce of dignity. We destroyed them as a people.
One young chief rose at a Dene Nation meeting in front of
some 30 chiefs and said: "Senator, go back to Ottawa and tell
these people we do not need gun control. I am the chief and there
are only two of us in the tribe who are sober. The rest, elders and
everyone, are under the influence. We need alcohol and
substance control. Gun control is not part of our problem and it
never has been."
Then we have our prison communities: In Stony Mountain
prison in Manitoba, 55 per cent of the population is native, but
only 7 per cent of the provincial population is native. My friends,
we now want to criminalize them even further for not registering
their tools.
The native people can hardly believe that this is happening.
Senator Lucier can tell you about the elders in the Yukon who
spoke to us, each one from the bottom of his heart. They did not
make fancy speeches on the egregious errors or the temerity of
this bill; they told us, in the most basic terms, how this bill will
impact upon them negatively.
*

2201>)

Why are we doing this? One senator told me that we will give
them a break and only charge them with a summary offence and,
on the second offence, they will become criminals. These people
do not understand why they would be charged in the first place.
They would logically commit the offence again because they
would figure they were doing the right thing. Yet we want to
criminalize and incarcerate them.

2311l
2311

Honourable senators, I wanted to change the amendment to
include consultation for 12 months before the passage of this
legislation. I was told that this would be seen as hoisting the bill.
I understand that. I do not want to hoist any bills. I do not want to
delay the legislation. I just want to see good legislation.
Honourable senators have talked about Kim Campbell's bill. I
did not agree with it, either. All I want to do is deal with things
logically. I do not believe that we are exercising logic in dealing
with our native communities.
I would like to finish off by saying what I think this piece of
legislation will do to our country. I was elected to the House of
Commons in 1983. I did not know a living, breathing Tory when
I got into this business. At the time I came into Parliament, I
could see problems developing on the horizon as far as the unity
of this country was concerned. I see four provinces and two
territories representing 80 per cent of the land mass and
56 per cent of the population of this country saying, "This is not
good legislation. This is not enforceable. We will comply with it
if we are forced to."
Honourable senators, we are developing a wedge like the one
that bas developed in Quebec. It is not the same thing, but it is a
division. It is divisiveness that I do not believe this country needs
at this point in time.
I was told that the reason Quebec was allowed to hold a
referendum in 1980 was that a duly-elected legislative assembly
in that province wanted to exercise its democratic rights. Another
referendum was held in 1995. What is wrong with the legislative
assemblies of Ontario, Manitoba, Saskatchewan, Alberta, the
Northwest Territories and Yukon? Why are we not paying heed
to what these people are saying? These people are not supporting
any criminal activity. What they are doing is representing their
regions. Until we recognize the diversity of this country, we are
destined to destroy it.

Honourable senators, this is the most horrible piece of
legislation that we could impose on these people. It is totally
unacceptable.

I can understand why Quebec is where it is today. I can also
understand what will happen if we continue along this track and
continue to ignore the likes of Manitoba, Saskatchewan, Alberta,
Ontario, the territories and Yukon.

I do not know what the government is thinking. I was looking
at the smug bureaucrat who sat beside the minister when he
appeared before our committee. We asked them about
consultation with natives. In our travels, we asked those who
appeared before us about consultation. We heard in committee
before we left that they had not been consulted. We were told this
by Matthew Coon Come, Chief Erasmus and Ovide Mercredi all of them told us that they had not been consulted. I said to the
minister, "Why were they not consulted?" The minister provided
us with a list of those with whom they consulted. The natives
told us, "Our name is there but they never talked to us."

In closing, the minister quoted his Liberal friend, the Attorney
General of P.E.I. What a coincidence; they are both Liberals and
they both have their own special view of Canada, which is
basically the same view. There is more to Canada than P.E.I. and
downtown Toronto: just ask Chief Erasmus, Mike Dudar from
Ethelbert, Manitoba, Mayor Gary Pollock from Swan Hills,
Alberta, or Jim Zimmerman from the Kootenays. These people
are Canadians. They have a different view of what Canada is all
about and what it is to be a Canadian.

The bureaucrats at DIAND know better, just like all the other
bureaucrats. They know what these people need. In spite of the
fact that we have virtually annihilated them, we are still going at

Maybe we should ask the Quebecers. Instead of the
manipulation that took place with them, how different would it
be if the Constitution had not been patriated without them being
a signatory to the document? Had the Meech Lake Accord gone
ahead. perhaps today we would be a stronger country.

We are at a crossroads. Ail this is history in the making. We
control the destiny and the future of this country. Let us not
torget that we are ail diverse. We ail may see Canada through a
somewhat different window. but we ail sec Canada in the
hackground. Let us not [ose our focus on Canada and its
diversity.

Some Hon. Senators: Hear. hear!
Hon. B. Aiasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourable senators. I would certainly not
suggest that we have completed the roster of speakers on this
particular bill on either side of the house. There have been
discussions with the leadership on both sides. There seems to be
an agreement that we might adjoumn and resume tomorrow. If any
honourable senator wants to speak tonight, then we stili have
time. However. I do not see anyone who is so inclined.

If there is agreement, I would adJourn the debate in the name
oU Senator Bacon.
On motion of Senator Graham, for Senator Bacon. debate
adjoumned.

BUSINESS 0F THE SENATE
Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourabie senators, if there is agreement, 1
move that ail] remaining Orders, Reports. Motions and Inquiries
stand.
Motion agreed to.
The Senate adjourned until Wednesday. November 22, 1995 at
1:30 p.m.

2313

THE SENATE
Wednesday, November 22, 1995
The Senate met at 1:30 p.m., the Speaker pro tempore in the
Chair.
Prayers.

muzzled the press, and engaged in widespread repression
and corruption.
[Translation]

SENATORS' STATEMENTS
NIGERIA
EXECUTION 0F KEN SARO WIWA
AND NINE OTHER OGONI ACTIVISTS

Hon. Jean-Louis Roux: Honourable senators, 1 was shocked
and appalled by the execution by hanging on November 10, 1995
of nine leaders of the Ogoni people in Nigeria at the hands of the
military dictatorship of General Sani Abacha. One of these
activists was the internationally acclaimed writer
Ken Saro-Wiwa.
[Translation]

In addition to defending the rights of the Ogoni people, Ken
Saro-Wiwa was a weIl-known writer and ardent
environmentalist. He was president of the association of writers
of Nigeria and known as a human rights activist through
Amnesty International and PEN International, and for his
defence of environental rights through Greenpeace. In 1990, he
abandoned his literary career to, found the Movement for the
Survival of Ogoni People.
[English]

Led by Ken Saro-Wiwa, the 500,000 Ogonis mobilized en
masse to dlaim their fair share of the billions of dollars extracted
from their homeland by multinational oil companies, such as
ShelI and Mobil. Several observers have noted that the revenues
generated by this exploitation, an estimated $100 billion since
1960, were used indirectly to finance the repression of the
Ogonis by the military rulers. As weIl, the Ogonis demand
compensation for the ecological devastation caused to their
traditional economy, which is based on fishing and agriculture,
by badly maintained pipelines and oul blow-outs.
Despite the Ogonis' commitment to non-violence, an
intervention by the Nigerian military to crush a demonstration
against Shell in January 1993 led to the destruction of several
villages and the mindless killing of several hundred innocent
victims. In November 1993, the military junta annulled the
presidential elections and incarcerated the presumed victor,
arrested and persecuted hundreds of pro-democracy activists,

Saro-Wiwa was jailed in May 1994, after being charged with
planning the murder of four pro-government Ogoni chiefs.
Although he declared that he was innocent and was flot even
present when the incident took place, Saro-Wiwa and his fellow
defendants were sentenced to death for these murders by a
special tribunal, in a flagrant denial of the fundamental rights of
the defendants, which was unanimously condemned as a parody
of justice by many international observers. At least two witnesses
have admitted they were paid by the govemment.
Despite appeals for clemency and protests from many
organizations and many countries, General Abacha cynically
turned a deaf ear and confirmed his odious reputation by
executing the nine Ogoni activists. Outrage among the
international community was instantaneous. In a decision
unprecedented in the history of that organization,
Commonwealth members, meeting in Auckland, New Zealand at
the time the nine Ogoni leaders were executed, imposed a
two-year suspension on Nigeria, during which time it would have
to, restore democracy and respect for human rights or otherwise
be formally excluded trom the organization. The European
Union also broke off aIl cooperation with the military regime of
General Abacha. Many countries, including Canada, also
withdrew their ambassadors from Abuja, the capital of Nigeria.
We have known for some time the dangers inherent in political
systems where freedom of expression is curtailed and any hint of
dissent is silenced. Writer Ken Saro-Wiwa was among the first to,
be critical of the system in his country, Nigeria. The whole world
will always be indebted to, him, and 1 urge ail my colleagues to
pay him the tribute he deserves, bearing in mind this very apt
comment by Albert Camus in Le témoin de la liberté:
In a world in which we are condemned to die, the artist
testifies to that which refuses to, die in us...
[English]
*(13401)

GUN CONTROL LEGISLATION
Hon. Marjory LeBreton: Honourable senators, I wish to put
on the record that 1, like many of my colleagues, support strict
gun control laws. I was honoured to be part of the government
which legislated some of the strictest gun control laws in the
world, particularly as the Iaw relates to handguns and assault
weapons.

I have spoken to many women who share these views on this
issue. We now have a new bill belore us for consideration. There
is always room for improvement, and I intend to support
amendments which seek to do just that: Improve the bill.
I would like to add, honourable senators, that many women
who have spoken to me worry about the cost of the
implementation of this new legislation. They ask: Would this
money not be better spent on homes for battered women and
children and on funding the child care package promised by the
Liberals in their infamous Red Book, a concrete measure which
would allow women to be freer to make choices for the overall
betterment of their own lives and the lives of their children?
Hon. Lorna Milne: Honourable senators, in my speech
yesterday. I had my eye on the clock. and I was unable to put on
the record some thoughtful words we heard in committee on
Bill C-68. I will take a moment to draw your attention to them.
The committee heard from the Honourable Alan Buchanan,
Attorney General of Prince Edward Island. His words were
echoed by his federal counterpart last week, and I think they bear
repeating. He said:
I am a Canadian and I believe that this bill is an important
legislative expression of what it means to be a Canadian.
I believe the bill to be a timely reaffirmation of the essential
beliefs and values that set us aside as a civilized nation.
He added later:
I am convinced that our long-standing cultural tradition as
peaceful and law-abiding people is a fundamental part of
our national character, a priceless badge of honour, and we
should do everything possible to...strengthen this tradition.
The federal government's legislation does precisely that and
as a Canadian and as a parliamentarian I am pleased to
support this legislative initiative...
Honourable senators, I agree with Mr. Buchanan. and I believe
that his words should be reflected upon by all members of this
house.
Hon. Pat Carney: Honourable senators. I too wish to address
the firearms legislation that is before us this afternoon. I attended
meetings recently in Vancouver to hear from people who feel
they will be affected by Bill C-68, meetings that were called by
my B.C. colleague Gerry St. Germain and attended by Senator
Ghitter and others. I thought it would be timely to share with you
some of the concerns expressed at those hearings.
Honourable senators. most of us in this chamber do. of course,
support gun control. In 1991. our Conservative government,
under then justice minister Kim Campbell. brought in the most
extensive firearms legislation in existence in the recent past.
I have checked with our Vancouver police officer. and he finds
that legislation quite effective. The officer in charge of firearms

I Scnaior LcBreton

|

permits says he turns down about 10 to 20 per cent of requests
for firearms certificates on the basis of that legislation. The man
on parole does not get a licence; the man going bankrupt does
not get a licence; a person showing signs of depression does not
get a licence - in other words, we have effective legislation.
I wanted to mention some of the concerns from our hearings.
A very important one was the effect that this legislation will have
on aboriginal rights. One of the most effective agencies in my
province is the Indian Homemakers of B.C. It is an advocate for
women and children and a group that, I thought, would support
this legislation. At the hearings, its president spoke to the
contrary. It opposes this legislation because it feels the provisions
in Bill C-68 will increase the level of violence against women
and children among First Nations. That was disturbing to me.
Other concerns related to the impact of this legislation on
international competition. As honourable senators know. the head
coach of the Canadian Olympic team says that the provisions in
this bill, whether by design or accident, would impede our ability
to compete in the Olympic Games and the Pan-American Games.
The Commonwealth Games could not have been held in Victoria
had this legislation been in place. There is concern that an
activity which is a recreational sport and an international sport to
many Canadians is being unfairly targeted in this bill.
Concerns were raised about the
legislation, the millions upon millions
said should go to child care, violence
and policing activities against criminal
real concern.

cost imposed by this
of dollars that witnesses
against women, shelters.
elements. That is a very

There was concern that law-abiding Canadians could be found
in violation of a minor infringement under this legislation, and
could actually go to jail on a second offence. As one ex-police
officer said at the hearings, "If we are not the target, why do we
have to pay the price?"
Concern was expressed about the harshness of the penalties
contained in the bill. It was pointed out that under this legislation
the minimum penalties for failure to register a gun would be
harsher than those for manslaughter or attempted murder. That is
considered to be an inequitable application of the law in our part
of the country.
There are concerns about hobbies. People interested in our
history like to re-enact battles and feel they will be targeted by
this legislation.
Some people were concerned about museums. Normally, we
do not consider museums to be a hotbed of criminal activity, but
museums say that they will be required to pay about $4 million
in fees under this legislation.
There is concern that antique guns are included in this
legislation. As we were told at the Vancouver hearings, there is
no record of a 7-Eleven convenience store being shot up by
anyone using a 200-year-old musket.

November 22, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

2315
2315

SENATE DEBATES

November 22, 1995

There is a private fear, publicly voiced, that under the
computer registration provision of this legislation, homes could
be targeted by criminals. As one female witness said, a computer
list could turn into a shopping list for criminals. They fear that
their privacy and safety will be affected.
I wanted to bring those concerns forward for the benefit of
honourable senators who did not have a chance to attend the
Vancouver hearings, the Kamloops hearings, the Yukon hearings,
Manitoba hearings, or all the other hearings organized by our
colleagues on Bill C-68.
CANADA COUNCIL
FUTURE OF ART BANK

Hon. Eymard G. Corbin: Honourable senators, I did not have
sufficient time to prepare myself for this statement. Nevertheless,
I think it is important that a senator make a statement at this time
about the future of the Canada Council Art Bank.

The point is that the chairman of the Canada Council and the
director of the Canada Council made up their minds, they say,
with the few members who were then on the board of the
council; but their number was small compared to the full
complement of council members. Some months ago. they
decided that the Art Bank would have to disappear. That was
what was in their minds; they made the announcement, and that
was that. They then established a transition committee to help
them achieve that goal.
Notwithstanding the fact that it was not within its mandate, the
transition committee has emphatically stated that the Art Bank
should be maintained, although perhaps not in the specific way it
is now managed and operated. They did single out the Art Bank
as constituting a unique art collection spanning some 25 to
30 years of artistic production in this country. That goes directly
against the will of those who direct the Canada Council today.
To me, that is indicative of there being something gravely
wrong within the Canada Council.

Some months ago, the president of the Canada Council and the
director announced the establishment of a transition advisory
committee to help the council decide what to do about the Art
Bank, an institution which has functioned exceedingly well up
until this point in time. I am not saying that there were no
problems, especially managerial ones, but that is something I do
not wish to speak about today.

Honourable senators may agree or disagree with some
decisions the Canada Council has made over the years but, in my
opinion and in that of many senators, overall, it has served the
cultural interests of Canada exceedingly well, in spite of
incidents or accidents. I do not think we should throw the baby
out with the proverbial bath water.

Honourable senators, the fact is that a number of papers have
articles on the presentation of the report, which was released only
yesterday, though it had been in the hands of the president and
the director of the Canada Council for over a month. The
headline in The Toronto Star reads, "Keep Art Bank alive, but cut
off funds, report says." The Globe and Mail reads, "Scale down
Art Bank, advisory team says - Canada Council questions
report."

The time has come for Parliament to re-examine the operation
of the Canada Council. I believe it should be maintained.
However, the Canada Council, existing by virtue of a law of
Parliament, mandated by Parliament, has to come to account with
the way it is directing that institution. The Senate is in an
excellent position to take that initiative and, indeed, to have a
second look at all of our cultural institutions and what they bring
to the identity and unity of Canada. In the near future, we should
set ourselves that task.

0(1350)

[Translation]

Today's Le Devoir has a four-column-wide headline. which
translates roughly as:
Survival hangs in the balance.
Canada Council Art Bank transition committee tables its
report.
[English]

The Montreal Gazette had a four-column-wide headline:
Committee report on Art Bank's fate calls for it to be
resuscitated.
The Ottawa Citizen's B-folio headline reads as follows:
Art Bank shouldn't be sold, panel says. Hiring managers.
paring collection. also suggested.

REFORM PARTY
BID TO BECOME OFFICIAL OPPOSITION IN HOUSE OF COMMONS

Hon. J. Michael Forrestall: Honourable senators, if my
information is correct, this afternoon Preston Manning will
attempt to achieve his lifetime dream of becoming the Leader of
the Official Opposition in the Parliament of Canada, and to have
his colleagues rise and sing our national anthem.
On the surface, this is laudable. We enjoy the presence of our
flag on the floors of our respective chambers, but we have
refrained for a very good and valid reason from the practice of
singing our national anthem.
Anthems, of course, are living things and, as such, from time
to time they should reflect the society in which we live, our
history and culture, our hopes for the future, our own separate
beliefs and our own separate gods. However, honourable
senators, when we subject those symbols to the peril of ridicule
or politicization. then I believe we do a disservice.

As one of the two remaining parliamentarians who had the rare
and deep privilege of helping to rewrite our national anthemn hack
in the mid- 1960s. 1 take exception to the Reform Party of
Canada's attempt to - just what it is, 1 amrnfot sure. If they are
attempting to bring into disrepute the flag of Canada and the
parliamentary process, then 1 would be very upset.
Honourable senators, it will be ohvious whether certain
members of another party. who have every right to be in that
other chamber. respect the singing of the national anthem. If they
sit and do flot participate, then 1 ask you to consider what that
will do to our national anthem as a symbol of our tives in
Canada.

ROUTINE PROCEEDINGS
EMPLOYMENT EQUITY BILL,
REPORT 0F COMMITTEE PRESENTED AND PRINTED

Hon. M. Lorne Bonneli: Honourable senators, I have the
honour to prescrnt the eleventh report of the Standing Senate
Committee on Social Affairs. Science and Technology. This
report concems Bill C-64, respecting employment equity.
1 ask that the report be printed in the Minutes of th2e
Proceedings qf the Senate of this day.

The Hon. the Speaker pr-o tetnpore: Is it agreed. honourable
senators?

Hon. Senators: Agreed.
(For lexti of report, see todaY s Minutes of the Proceedings of
the Senate.)

The Hon. the Speaker pro tetnpore: When shahl this report be
taken into consideration?
On motion of Senator Graham, report placed on the Orders of
the Day for consideration at the next sitting of the Senate.
0 (411oo,

PRIVATE BILL
EVANGELICAL MISSIONARY CHURCH (CANADA WEST DISTRICT)
FIRST READING

Hon. Leonard J. Gustafson presented Bill S-12. to
amalgamate the Alberta corporation known as the Missionary
Church with the Canada corporation known as the Evangelical
Missionary Church, Canada West District.
Bill read first time.

I sellatoi. I-oi

,tail 1

The Hon. the Speaker pro temipore: Honourable senators,
when shall this bill be read the second time?
On motion of Senator Gustafson. bill placed on Orders of the
Day for second reading on Wednesday, November 29, 1995.

BANKING, TRADE AND COMMERCE
NOTICE 0F MOTION TO AUTHORIZE COMMMFEE
TO MEET DURING SITTINGO0F THE SENATE

Hon. Michael Kirby: Honourable senators, I give notice that
on Thursday, November 23, 1995, 1 will move:
That the Standing Senate Committee on Banking. Trade
and Commerce have the power to sit at two o'clock in the
aftemoon. Thursday. November 30, 1995. even though the
Senate may then be sitting, and that rule 95(4) be suspended
in relation thereto.
STATE 0F CANADIAN FINANCIAI, SYSTEMNOTICE 0F MOTION TO EXTEND DATE 0F FINAL REPORT

Hon. Michael Kirby: Honourable senators. 1 give notice that
on Thursday next. November 23, 1995. I wiII move:
That, notwithstanding the order of' reference adopted by
the Senate on Wednesday. November 30. 1994. the Standing
Senate Committee on Banking. Trade and Commerce be
authorized Io continue its examination into the present state
of the financial systemn in Canada;
That. in conducting this study, the Committee pursue. in
particular. ils examination into Crown financial institutions,
corporate governance. and the 1992 retorm of financial
institutions;
That. notwithstanding usual practices. if during the winter
adlournment the Senate is not sitting when the Committee*s
report on its review of Crown financial institutions is
completed. the report may be deposited with the Clerk of
the Senate and it shaîl thereupon be deemed to have been
presented to that Chamber; and
That the Committee present its final report no later than
September 26, 1996.

GUN CONTROL LEGISLATION
PRESENTATION 0F PETITIONS

Hon. Eric Arthur Berntson (Deputy Leader of the
Opposition): Honourable senators. I have in my hand a petition
containing 4,370 signatures from rural municipality 92. Wawota.
Saskatchewan. It states:

November 22, 1995

Novem DEBATES
er1995SENATE
22

TO TI-E HONOURABLE THE SENATE 0F CANADA IN
PARLIAMENT ASSEMBLED
The PETITION of the undersigned, residents of Canada,
Humbly Sheweth:
THAT the majority of Canadians are law-abiding citizens
who respect the law;
THAT the crime rate in Canada will flot decrease if
mandatory registration of firearms legisiation is passed; and
that stricter penalties on offenders would be a more
appropriate solution to crime;
THAT the majority of Canadians are opposed to those
measures in the Govemnment Action Plan and in Bill C-68
that impose needless burdens on law-abiding Canadians
such as the registration and licensing of firearms;
THEREFORE your petitioners pray that: The Senate of
Canada wilI do ail in its power to defeat Bill C-68;
AND as in duty bound your petitioners will ever pray.
Honourable senators, there are now 4,371 signatures on this
petition, as I have added my own to it.
Hon. Gerry St. Germain: Honourable senators, 1 have the
honour to present the following petition signed by 2,500 people
from every region in the province of British Columbia from
Prince George to Delta and Surrey:
TO THE HONOURABLE SENATE 0F CANADA IN
PARLIAMENT ASSEMBLED
The petition of the undersigned citizens of Canada
humbly showeth that Bill C-68, a bill concerning firearms
and other weapons, is unwarranted and intrusive legisiation
which needlessly targets law-abiding firearms owners and
which attacks the very foundations of the democratic
principles of this country.
Hon. Leonard J. Gustafson: Honourable senators, 1 should
like to present the following petition:

2317
21

There are thousands of signatures here. 1 have not counted
them, but they give some indication of the concern about this
legisiation, especially in rural Saskatchewan, parts of Alberta and
B.C.
Hon. Duncan J. Jessiman: Honourable senators, I have the
following petition to, present:
TO THE HONOURABLE SENATE 0F CANADA IN
PARLIAMENT ASSEMBLED
We, the undersigned, do flot feel that registering and
restricting the use of sporting guns will reduce crime in this
country. It will only add cost and waste time for honest and
responsible gun owners. Lt will also cost taxpayers a lot of
money to enforce. We enjoy the sport of hunting and
shooting, and hope our children, too, would get the chance
to enjoy it. Additional costs and hassies introduced by
further restrictive legislation will no doubt discourage them
from taking up the sport.
This petition was signed by approximately 1,000 persons in
the province of Manitoba outside the city of Winnipeg.
Hon. WiIlie Adams: Honourable senators, I have a petition to
present with 1,552 signatures from the Baffin region, the
Keewatin region and Aklavik, with regard to forcing Bill C-68
upon the Northwest Temrtories.

QUESTION PERIOD
JUSTICE
SALE 0F AIRBUS AIRCRAFT TO AIR CANADA-ALLEGED
CONSPIRACY TO DEFRAUD FEDERAL GOVERNMENT-TABLINGO0F
LElTER TO SWISS AUTHORITIES-REOUEST FOR ANS WER

Hon. J. Michael Forrestaîl: Honourable senators, 1 invite the
Leader of the Government in the Senate to respond to, a question
I asked of her on November 20 concerning the complexity of
tabling a pertinent letter in this chamber. That letter concernied
the request of another govemment to pursue a certain matter.

TO THE HONOURABLE SENATE 0F CANADA IN
PARLIAMENT ASSEMBLED

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, 1 have made inquiries. 1 was advised that,
no, it would not be possible to table that letter. That letter is
confidential.

The petition of the undersigned citizens of Canada
humbly showeth that Bill C-68, a bill concerning firearms
and other weapons, is unwarranted and unnecessary
legislation which needlessly targets law-abiding Canadians
and which attacks the very foundation of the democracy
principles of this country.

Senator Forrestall: Honourable senators, it certainly is
confidential; there is no doubt about that. So that the record is
clear, could the midnister indicate what makes it confidential? Is it
confidential because of an agreement that would require the
permission of another authority to release it, or is it an internai
matter?

Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators. the letter to which
the honourable senator refers -that is. the original letter -is a
confidential letter that was transmitted in that manner. very
carefully. to the Swiss authorities. It remains confidential. Other
varieties of correspondence which have found their way into the
media are flot the document of the Department of Justice.
[Translation]
SALE 0F AIRBUS AIRCRAFV TO AIR CANADA-ALLEGED
CONSPIRACY TO DEFRAUD FEDERAL GOVERNMENTDEPARTMENTAL LElTER TO SWISS AUTHORITIESSOURCE 0F LEAK TO MEDIA

Hon. Pierre Claude Nolin: Honourable senators, yesterday
afternoon the Minister of Justice admitted, in connection with
this letter. that it was important to find out how the infamous
letter had been leaked. Yesterday afternoon. aIs the very same
time or just shortly after. RCMP authorities contacted admitted
that they were flot aware of any investigation into this famous
leak. Could you please enlighten us about this confusion'?
[English]
*

141oIl

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, we have no idea how an edited version of
the letter to the Swiss authorities found its way into the hands of
the Canadian media. As 1 believe 1 have made clear, Department
of Justice officiais confirm that the edited document is not a
tederal goverfiment document. The original letter was a
confidential letter between the appropriate Canadian and Swiss
authorities, as 1 have already told Senator Forrestall.
With regard to my hoîîourable friend's comments on the
RCMP, 1 will follow up on that matter with my colleagues.
[Translation]

Senator Nolin: The Minister of' Justice was very clear: The
source of the leak must be found. Canadians are entitled to
conclude from the minister's statement that he wants an intemal
investigation carried out. That statement also sent the media after
the RCMP to ask if an investigation was under way. The
response is contusing. 1 think we are entitled to know whether
this confusion is going to be cleared up.
[En glish]

Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators, 1 wiIl, of course. do
anything 1 can to clear up any confusion experienced by the
honourable senator with regard to this issue.
However. 1 will state once again that there is no confusion
about the fact that the Minister of Justice has contirmed that the

original letter between Canadian and Swiss officiais was
confidential. and documentation which is out in the media or
eisewhere is flot Canadian government documentation.

ATLANTIC CANADA OPPORTUNITIES AGENCY
CORNWAL LIS PARK DEVELOPMENT AGENCY-ALLEGATIONS
FINDINOS OF NATIONAL DEFENCE
MISMANAGEMENT
INVESTIGATION
GOVERNMENT POSITION

0F

Hon. Gerald J. Comeau: Honourable senators, my question is
a foliow-up to a question I raised previously with regard to the
removal of assets fromt DND property in Cornwallis, Nova
Scotia. The leader may be aware that the Military Police from
CFB Greenwood have finally been called in to investigate the
suspicious removal of base property.
Given that the Military Police were flot doing their jobs when
the assets were being removed, what assurances do Canadians
have that the findings of the DND investigations will be made
public'?

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators. 1 was flot aware of' the information which
the honourable senator has provided. I will follow up on that
matter.

Senator Comeau: Honourable senators. given that the
findings may bc of incompetence. or worse, will the minister
assure the house that the findings of the investigation will be
made public"
Senator Fairbairn: I should like to refresh my memory on the
details relating to my honourable triend's original question
before 1 give such an assurance.
HUMAN RIGHTS
NIGERIA EXECUTION 0F OGONI ACTIVISTS POSSIBLE
RESTORATION 0F DEMOCRACY GOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. Consiglio Di Nino: Honourable senators. I should like to
associate myseif with the comments made by Senator Roux on
the tragedy which occurred in Nigeria recently. Could the Leader
of the Government in the Senate update us on what action the
Government of Canada is taking in dealing with those who are
running that country?
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, 1 should like te, associate myself' with the
remarks of Senator Di Nino and Senator Roux, as 1 am sure aIl of
us in this bouse would. on the enormous tragedy which occurred
in Nigeria. It occurred. in effeet. in the face of the
Commonwealth. which was meeting at that time.

November 22, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

2319

As Senator Di Nino will know, the Canadian government and
the Prime Minister very strongly condemned the decision by the
Nigerian authorities. Indeed, Prime Minister Chrétien was very
outspoken in his efforts to mobilize public opinion against the
occurence of such a tragedy.

In trying to discern what the government policy is, I got
contradictory statements from various departments. In the end,
my office was told that the whole matter is under review.

In concert with other nations, Canada has recalled its chargé
d'affaires from Lagos for consultation. The Canadian
government is considering a number of measures against
Nigeria's military regime to promote the return to democracy in
that country. The honourable senator might appreciate that the
most effective manner of doing this is through multilateral
action. The kinds of measures which might be taken will be
discussed with Canada's Commonwealth allies, and also within
the United Nations family.

Could the Leader of the Govemment enlighten me as to where
we stand today on land mines and the countless deaths that they
have caused? We do not know the nanes of the dead, but we see
the horrors in many countries: Cambodia, Vietnam, Bosnia, and
the list goes on.

Senator Di Nino: Honourable senators, it is laudable that our
colleague the Leader of the Government in the Senate agrees
with us. I have no doubt that she does, and I am delighted to hear

0

(14201)

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, 1, too, have been seeking information on
this very issue, and I will share it when I receive it.
ENVIRONMENT
REDUCTION OF GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS- ESTABLISHMENT
OF NATIONAL STANDARDS-GOVERNMENT POSITION

it.

However, is the government prepared to take some leadership
in this matter, and take some action against the hoodlums who
are running Nigeria, or will it be as cowardly in dealing with this
issue as it was in dealing with the hoodlums who are governing
China?
Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators, I will not repeat the
answer I gave to the honourable senator earlier. I will only add
that Canada very definitely took the lead in advance of its
Commonwealth allies on this issue, and intends to follow up this
tragedy with action. We have already taken certain diplomatic
actions, and other actions are being suggested in discussions
among Commonwealth nations and the United Nations.
From past history of movements toward governments such as
the govemment of Nigeria, we have learned that the effectiveness
of international action is based primarily on the unity of nations,
and on the response emanating from them. In concert with its
partners both at the United Nations and in the Commonwealth,
Canada is very actively attempting to reach some agreement on
what kind of action will produce an effective and meaningful
result in Nigeria.
Senator Di Nino: We look forward to your actions.
MANUFACTURE AND USE OF LAND MINES-GOVERNMENT POLICY

Hon. A. Raynell Andreychuk: Honourable senators, staying
on the international front, I wish to ask a question of the Leader
of the Govemment in the Senate with regard to land mines and
the conventions dealing with them. I associate myself with her
comment that multilateral action is the way to go on certain
issues of human rights and international difficulties. I am pleased
that Canada is involved multilaterally in trying to curb the use of
land mines.
I am, however, distressed by the fact that, on a bilateral basis,
the minister in charge has stated that Canada would continue to
manufacture certain parts which can be used only for land mines.

Hon. Mira Spivak: Honourable senators, at a recent
federal-provincial meeting discussing greenhouse gas emissions,
there seemed to be a difference of opinion between the Minister
of the Environment and the Minister of Natural Resources. It
seems that the Minister of Natural Resources favours a voluntary
approach on the part of the provinces in curbing greenhouse gas
emissions, while the Minister of the Environment, who is
attempting to achieve federal standards for curbing levels of
greenhouse gas emissions, does not.
I should like to know the Leader of the Government's personal
views on this matter, as well the policy of the government in
terms of national standards.
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, one thing that is sure is that both of my
colleagues are united in their desire to see an orderly reduction of
greenhouse gas emissions. I know there was a meeting a few
days ago among ministers in Edmonton. I should like, to look
into that meeting and obtain a report on the exact outcome.
Senator Spivak: Honourable senators, environment is a
matter of shared jurisdiction. I know that there have been efforts
to harmonize environmental evaluations. However, in making her
enquiries, could the Leader of the Government in the Senate
clarify how all of this will eventually play out?
Greenhouse gas emissions are a major concern. The reason for
Minister Copps' position is that there has been new scientific
information on global warming. Could the minister clarify
whether, if it chooses, the federal government will be able to set
federal standards? That is a very important question.
Senator Fairbairn: It is an important question, honourable
senators. I agree that the issue itself is enormous, both
internationally and for Canada. I shall try to obtain an answer for
the honourable senator.

TRANSPORT
SEARCH AND RESCUE HELICOPTER REPLACEMENT
PROGRAM-STATUS OF EH-101 CONTRACTGOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. J. Michael Forrestali: Honourable senators. 1 should
like to try to, clear up another matter. It has to do with search and
rescue helicopters. As the Leader of the Government is no doubt
aware. her colleague the appropriate minister has announced a
final settlement with EH Industries l'or the contract that was
cancelled by her government on assuming office.
I know she understands the importance of making the
settlement public, because it speaks directly to the total cost of
cancelling the EH-l01 contract. It is also important because if is
relevant 10 the $600-million price tag that the minister has
outlined for the purchase of replacement equipment.
I would appreciate it very much if, sooner rather than later. the
leader would shed some light on this matter so that we might
have her answer as part of our record.

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government): I will
certainly do that. honourable senators. 1 cannot do it today. On an
issue like this, 1 would not even attempt to do so. 1 will try 10
obtain the relevant facts for the honourable senator as best 1 can.
[Translation]

On December 6, 1989, 14 young women lost their lives
because a madman happened to cross their path. a madman with
a gun. The École polytechnique massacre, like many other tragic
events, reminds us that aIl too often firearms are part of our
day-to-day reality. Cases of family homicides are surprisingly
common in our country, and it is a shock to realize that tirearms
are the weapon of choice in spousal homicides.
Also terrihly common are suicides involving a weapon that
was too readily accessible. and made the difference between an
irreparable outcome and an instant when the worst could have
been avoided.
Bill C-68 was drafted in order to spare the women and men of'
this country lrom having to experience. or to fear, such situations
any longer. and delaying its application and proposing unfounded
amendments is not the way to start any effective action.
First of ail. I shall address one of the amendments which is to
delay implementation in certain provinces or in the territories.
Allow me to state. honourable senators. that I find it somewhat
ironic, when there is talk of equality between the provinces, that
there is a desire to make some of them distinct cases. This
amendment would allow provinces and territories to delay total
Canada-wide implementation for up to ten years. This
amendment is tantamount to allowing the provinces and
territories the possibility of not implementing the firearms act for
ten years. A ten-year delay means a heavy risk to the health and
safety of Canadians.
This proposaI cannot be supported. l'or a number ot reasonspractical. economic and legal.

ORDERS 0F THE DAY
FIREARMS BILL
CONSIDERATION 0F REPORT 0F COMMITTEEDEBATE CONTINUED

On the Order:
Resuming the debate on the motion of the Honourable
Senator Beaudoin. seconded by the Honourable Senator
Grimard. f'or the adoption of the sixteenth report ot the
Standing Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs
(Bill C-68, an Act respecting firearms and other weapons,
with amendments) presented in the Senate on Monday,
November 20, 1995.

Hon. Lise Bacon: Honourable senators. in a fe w days we shaîl
be commemorating the horrible massacre at Ecole polytechnique
in Montreal.

In his final submission [o the Senate committee. the minister
addressed the possibility of withdrawal. and its consequences for
public safety and crime prevention.
Firearms from the provinces and territories deferring
implementation will end up in jurisdictions that have chosen to
implement registration promptly. thus undermining their programi
of' universal registration.
Provincial and territorial governments told Parliament and the
Senate committee why there was a need f'or national standards
for enforcement of the legisiation. The experience of other
countries has illustrated the problems that occur when universal
registration is not mandatory throughout the country. For
instance. in Australia, universal registration exists in tive of the
country's administrations but not in the other three. The national
committee on violence, an intergovernmental committee that
examined violence in Australia. found that gun control was
seriously undermined by the differences that existed from region
to region. The committee recommended making universal
registration mandatory throughout the country.

November 22, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

The provinces and territories could all elect to postpone
implernentation until all govemments are ready to implement the
program. Ten years would be too long and would not be
acceptable, considering what Canadians expect gun control
legislation to do in terms of protecting the public.
An assessment of universal registration by a few governments
would not be very helpful. Unregistered guns and rifles would be
moved from territory to territory, and the benefits of universal
registration would be lost.
We need registration in all provinces and territories. According
to a report on the unlawful entry, exit and circulation of firearms
in Canada, in 1993 nearly 5,000 firearms were recovered by the
police, which means 10 police forces serving 40 per cent of the
rural and urban population of Canada. Half of these weapons
were guns and rifles, which was one of the reasons why the task
force recommended that all guns, and not just handguns, be
registered upon entry into Canada.

would need to be in effect and enforced at the same time. One
wonders whether this would be legally feasible.
With its application in different administrations with different
criminal codes, an individual in a province that has the
registration system in effect could not sell a long gun to someone
in another province that does not, because no licence would be
required.
Clearly, serious consideration has not been given to the
disastrous effects this amendment would have in terms of the
application of the legislation.
The amendment also poses problems in terms of the Canadian
Charter of Rights and Freedoms. Under Part III of the present
Criminal Code, two years' imprisonment is the maximum
sentence provided for the transfer of a long gun to an individual
who is not authorized to acquire a firearm. Under section 101 of
the new Part III, five years' imprisonment is the maximum
sentence for this offence.

(1430)

What would be the consequences of this amendment? The
police would not be able to trace the ownership of many of the
firearms they recover. They would not know whether they were
stolen, illegally imported, sold, or used previously to commit a
criminal act.
Enforcement would create problems for Customs Canada.
How could Customs officers enforce export regulations that
differ from province to province? In the case of foreign visitors,
would a licence and a certificate be issued to someone who
arrives in a province where the program is in effect? Should the
training Customs officers receive depend on where they work?
How will the public react to Customs laws that vary, depending
on the province and territory?
Parliament has an obligation to ensure that responsible owners
of firearms are able to comply with Bill C-68. This provision for
opting in or opting out would not be in the public interest. It
would upset owners of firearms, hunters from other countries and
the police who must enforce legislation that is passed to protect
the Canadian public.
The financial framework of the Canadian firearms registration
system, tabled by the Minister of Justice before the committee of
the House of Commons, shows a balance between expenditures
and revenues. However, this financial framework is based on the
assumption that the money will come from three million owners
who will register seven million firearms.
The Senate committee's proposal to amend Bill C-68 would
make the legislation so confusing and so vague that it will be
impossible to enforce and will benefit no one. Province by
province implementation would mean that the present Part III of
the Criminal Code and the new Part III provided under Bill C-68

Those proposing the amendment on participation and
withdrawal will not want to impose such unfair and
discriminatory legislation on Canadians.
The amendment is obviously incomplete. It aims at suspending
the application of provisions of Bill C-68 pertaining to the
registration of long guns. However, the section proposing the
amendment does not indicate which clauses of Bill C-68 are
involved. Many of the provisions relating to selling, lending,
importing and exporting refer simply to "firearms" and concern
their registration. There is no way of knowing whether these
provisions are involved.
These questions cannot be justified by the Senate. If the
amendment is passed, it will tarnish the image of every senator in
the eyes of Canadians.
Furthermore, the dates indicated in the new clause 194 are in
contradiction with both the provisions of this clause and those of
clause 193. According to clause 193, the bill must come into
effect by January 1, 2003, at the latest. However, according to the
proposed subclauses 194(1) and (3), Bill C-68 must come into
effect, in the case of long guns, a maximum of eight years after
Royal Assent, which, obviously, does not coincide with
January 1, 2003.
The essential cooperation between the provinces and territories
and the federal government can only occur if we all make a
commitment to achieve the purpose of this bill, namely the
public health and safety of all Canadians. Bill C-68 addresses
crime through gun control in order to promote safety in homes
and on the streets across the country. The provinces agree with
this Parliament that, at the end of the day, gun control legislation
must be supported by the public. The gun control legislation
must be fully implemented.

In conclusion, honourable senators, the purpose of Bill C-68 is
to make our society safer and gun owners more responsible. That
is the basic principle underlying this bill.
Bill C-68 is aimed at protecting family members from the
dangers of unsupervised or easily accessible weapons. It is also
designed to protect police officers. and to make their fight
against crime more effective. Thanks to the registration of
firearms, to harsher sentences and to other measures provided for
in this bill. police officers will be better equipped to do their job
while enjoying better protection.
Gun control represents an important and even an essential
milestone in the fight against crime and violence. Honourable
senators, we ail want a safer, more secure society, and that is
what Bill C-68 proposes.
[English]
Hon. Janis Johnson: Honourable senators, I rise today to
express my support for the government's gun control bill,
Bill C-68. I support this bill as it stands, without amendment. I
ask each and every one of you to approach this as a matter of
conscience. This is not an easy decision for any of us.
In the Senate, honourable senators. our most important role is
to provide careful and ethical analysis of legislation. On matters
as important as gun control. we must consider the ethics of our
decision. and we must vote according to personal principles.
This is one of the most divisive issues to come before this
house in recent memory, but the controversy is rooted in politics
and the power of certain lobby groups. The fact is that the great
majority of Canadians support tougher laws for the use and
ownership of firearms, and this bill expresses the will of the
Canadian people.
A poil taken by Angus Reid last October indicated that a clear
70 per cent of the 1,504 adults surveyed support tougher gun
regulations. An Environics poil indicated that 90 per cent of
Canadians support a law requiring aIl firearms to be registered.
In the same polil, Canadians, particularly women living in large
urban centres, show even higher levels of support than the
national average. These statistics are impressive and cannot be
overlooked. There is substantial support for this legislation,
particularly in the province of Quebec.
0 (144)

My dear friends in the Senate of Canada, many organizations
and groups in my own home province of Manitoba also support
Bill C-68. When one hears people from the West speak, one
would think that no one in Western Canada supports this
legislation. This is not true. The Manitoba Action Committee on
the Status of Women, the Manitoba Police Association, the
Manitoba Teachers Association, the Manitoba Child Care

[ Senaior Bacon |

Association, the John Howard Society of Manitoba, the
Children's Home of Winnipeg, the Portage Women's Shelter. the
Winnipeg Health Department. the Winnipeg Police Service and I could go on with many more - al] support the passage of
this bill. I support the position of these groups.
I am concerned about public safety in Canada and, as
honourable senators are aware, many police associations
representing hundreds of officers across Canada support
Bill C-68. I would remind my honourable friends of what was
said by Chief MacDonald, President of the Canadian Association
of Chiefs of Police, on this matter. He said, and I quote:
Without information about who owns guns, there is no
effective gun control.
In his letter of February 24, 1995, he stated:
Opponents of gun control argue that the registration of
firearms will not reduce crime. In fact, it is the position of
the Canadian Association of Chiefs of Police that cost
effective registration is a key component of the new
proposed gun control legislation. Registration of firearms
will help control smuggling, gun theft, and the misuse of
legal firearms in a number of important ways. The illegal
gun trade is a major problem, particularly in large urban
centres.
Regarding the effect of the registration system, the chief also
stated the following in his letter:
Registration will help to ensure that gun owners are held
accountable for their firearms and do not sell them illegally
or give them to individuals without appropriate
authorization.
Honourable senators, this is not a perfect bill. We are a
patchwork of cultures across this country, and some groups such
as trappers, hunters, farmers and aboriginal people have argued
quite convincingly that this legislation runs counter to their life
style. I think they have a point. However, this legislation will
prove to be nothing more than an inconvenience to those groups.
They certainly have a right to oppose inconvenient legislation,
and they have done so with remarkable vigour. In my travels,
listening to hunters, farmers and other gun owners - and, keep
in mind I grew up in rural Manitoba - I have yet to encounter
any explanation of how exactly this bill will constitute anything
more than just that: a minor inconvenience.
Guns are designed to kili. Handguns and assault weapons in
particular exist for no other purpose than to kill human beings.
That being the case, this bill is only a moderate step. Any
law-abiding Canadian citizen will. under the terms of this bill.
retain the right to purchase and use a vast variety of guns. In no
way does this legislation diminish the right of law-abiding
Canadians to own guns.

November 22, 1995

Nove mber 22, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

SENATE DEBATES

The cornerstone of this proposed legislation is registration of
those guns. While registration may indeed prove to be a
nuisance, I have yet to comprehend why registration should be
such an affront to gun owners. We live in a society that routinely
registers everything, from my dog, to bicycles, to fishing boats.
Perhaps, just perhaps, I am missing the point.
After listening to testimonials in town halls in rural Manitoba,
I am still at a loss to understand how registering a deadly weapon
is somehow un-Canadian or undemocratic. In these meetings the
witnesses suggested some excellent, and quite reasonable,
amendments to this bill.
Many gun owners feel that the bill targets law-abiding citizens
instead of criminals. They argue that the first line of attack
against gun crime should properly be directed at individuals who
use guns in the commission of a crime. Of course. that is a
reasonable argument. Many law-abiding gun owners have
expressed strong support for much tougher penalties for the
criminal use of firearms. I have to say that I am in agreement
with these points of view. Although I feel that this bill
inadequately addresses those concerns, I do not believe that is
enough to defeat the bill.
All of us bring our own wish list of amendments to this bill.
However, if we insist on the adoption of these amendments at
this stage, we know very well that the bill may not survive
another passage through the house.
It is not being overly dramatic to point out, honourable
senators, that the lives of many people hang in the balance. These
people are alive and well as we speak but they could well
become victims of gun violence. They are people that you and I
have probably met or may have known. They are tomorrow's
victims, the people who appear as simple names and statistics in
a game of political football.
One of them may be a woman with no job, no education, and
a family of five children. She is in a long-term abusive
relationship with a man who continually threatens her with a gun.
By this time next year, she will probably have become another
statistic.
Consider the 10-year-old boy alive, and well today, who will
be killed while playing with a loaded gun. Consider the
depressed teenager, the jilted husband, the mean drunk, the
mentally deranged individual, and the 14-year-old gang member
with something to prove. Consider that it is becoming
increasingly easy for people like these to obtain firearms from
across the border, from house break-ins or from the black market
in unregistered guns. Consider the Canadians who must live with
the consequences.
I am not speaking about people of privilege like you and me,
honourable senators, some of whom live in the safest of society's
enclaves. I am speaking about-the victims: the person who eams
$12,000 a year driving a taxi at midnight; the police officer who

2323
2323

must ring a doorbell in the middle of the night in a domestic
dispute, not knowing whether a gun waits on the other side of the
door. We have all seen that officer's photograph in the
newspaper, the handsome young father cut down in the prime of
life. We will see that tragic photograph again.
That, honourable senators, is not in question. That is a fact.
People will live or die as a result of our decision, and that is why
this is an issue where ethics and personal responsibility must
supersede politics.
In conclusion, I ask you to approach this vote as a matter of
personal conscience.
Some Hon. Senators: Hear, hear!
Hon. Edward M. Lawson: Honourable senators, I am in
favour of crime control, but I am opposed to mandatory gun
registration.
It is somewhat ironic that in the next few weeks we will be
asked to vote to decriminalize marijuana, and today we are being
asked to vote on a bill that can criminalize decent, law-abiding
Canadian citizens such as hunters, aboriginal people, and
farmers.
Although I was impressed to some degree by Senator
Johnson's presentation, two matters bother me. In the name of
God, whatever happened to the word "compromise"? If we are
dealing with crime control, we should have before us a simple
bill with the toughest penalties, and it would meet with the
unanimous approval of every farmer and rancher across the
country as well as the whole Senate chamber. I repeat,
"...whatever happened to the word 'compromise'?"
The other matter that causes me concern is that we talk about
this being a life-and-death issue. If you take literally what has
been said two or three times today, with the passage of this bill
- from tomorrow forward - no one will die from the misuse of
an unlocked gun; and no one will be killed by a crazed killer. All
of that violence will disappear.
Honourable senators, it is fraudulent to suggest that to the
Canadian public. They are being deceived because that will not
be the case. The day following passage of this bill, or next week,
or next month, people will die because guns are not being
properly controlled. People will die at the hands of criminals and
this bill will not prevent it.
0

(1450)

I have been told that those of us who dare to oppose the
legislation are somehow captive to the ideas of the National Rifle
Association of the United States. I know something about the
NRA. I know they are the largest political pack in the U.S. They
raise more money than any other organization, including the
medical association. They influence the election of more

congressmen and senators. I am also aware of the letters that they
send out to their members, which under the name of any other
organization would be regarded as hate literature - so much so
that, as you may recall, President Bush resigned from that
organization.
I have seen their buttons - they corrupt teenagers by selling
them buttons that say: "Yes. you may take my gun when you tear
it from my cold, dead fingers."
What a fraud! I consider the National Rifle Association to be
almost an evil organization. However, I am not captive to their
ideas simply because I oppose the fraud that is being perpetrated
on Canadians with this bill.
A couple of incidents have had some influence on my
thinking: A female public official in British Columbia told me to
go back to Ottawa and tell the government to improve the
legislation by banning ail guns with the exception of police arms.
I asked what she would have me tell natives and hunters who
hunt for survival, and who feed themselves and their families on
animais that they kill with guns? She said to tell them to get their
meat at Safeway. the same as the rest of us.
Have we advanced very far in 200 years? Is that any worse or
any better than "Let them eat cake"?
We had another incident in my "backyard" of British
Columbia involving animal rights protectors. A number of mink
farms operate in the Fraser Valley, where Senator St. Germain
and I come from. On the mistaken assumption that these animais
were being harvested with guns, in the dark of night 10 or
12 people turned thousands of the animais loose. Fortunately,
about 80 per cent of the animais were recovered. Of the other
few hundred, some were killed on the highways in traffic. Those
that made it across the road would die an agonizing death from
starvation, because those animais are domesticated, and cannot
fend for themselves. One of the animal activists remarked:
"Better that kind of death than to be living in a cage."
These are economic terrorists of the worst kind. They are
misguided. and without any regard for the economic damage
done to the farmers who are trying to make an honest living. You
can almost forgive that kind of ignorance. I really must ask,
though: What is Allan Rock's excuse?
We have all had thousands of letters and form letters. Setting
aside the form letters, we received from legitimate Canadians
2,380 letters: 197 agreed with the bill, and 2,183 were against.
From my own province, I received 1,320 individual letters:
34 were in favour of the bill, and 1,286 were against. That had
some influence when taken with my own experience and my
views of the bill.
I was pleased to join with my colleague from British
Columbia. Senator St. Germain, as well as Senators Ghitter,

I Senator La

son 1

Tkachuk. Carney and Lucier. at the hearings in Vancouver and
Kamloops. We sat for a full day in both communities. Almost
every group began by saying: "Finally. here is the Senate
performing its function, hearing from ordinary people, and
associations, and protecting regional interests." They had been
denied the opportunity because of logistics, or because of the
numbers of people wishing to appear before the Senate
committee in Ottawa, or because they could not reach Allan
Rock, but this was their chance. Almost without exception, they
prefaced their presentations with applause for the Senate.
I would like to add my applause to the Conservative senators
who took the initiatives in holding these hearings. I was pleased
to join with them to hear from ordinary Canadians in Vancouver
and in Kamloops.
What did these ordinary Canadians tell us? My friend Senator
Sparrow made an amendment which I seconded, and which I
support. He talked about hunters and ranchers, and really made
the case for city versus country. That is what this bill is ail about.
Why do we not have a city bill and a country bill? We heard
today about how Senator Sparrow, as a rancher, deals with
predators.
We do not have capital punishment in Canada; we have not
had it for years, with one exception: On the farms and ranches of
Canada, we still have capital punishment. If a predator steals a
chicken, or kills a sheep or a cow, he must pay the ultimate price.
I do not know how many of you have had the experience of
dealing with predators. I am a farmer. If you do not have your
ammunition in that gun, and if you do not have the gun cocked
and the safety off before you step out from the barn or the house.
and that predator hears that click, you will never get a shot.
These are simple, practical facts about the reality of what
happens on farms and ranches.
In California. Governor Wilson ran for re-election on the
platform that the economy and the environment were compatible.
He said he had to do this because, in southern California, there
are many sheep ranchers. He said that the old farmer who had
been around for a long time, on seeing his sheep attacked by
coyotes, would, like his father and grandfather before him, take
out his rifle and chase down the predators.
Under the new system, along comes the environmental officer
to tell the farmer he cannot do that. The farmer then asks how he
is supposed to deal with predators, and the environmental officer
replies. "Under the new system which allows you to get rid of
your guns, we will follow the coyote to his lair and spray it to
cause the coyote to lose its desire for sex." The farmer then says,
"Well, sonny, I don't know what those coyotes do in the city, but
out here in the country, they eat the sheep." This is a
country-versus-city issue. Those kinds of "cures" for these kind
of problems simply do not work.

November 22, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

At the hearings I attended, we heard some very valid points
from native women's groups. Some of these native women were
hunters themselves. They had recommendations for the justice
minister if he is concerned about suicide and about violence to
native women. They said he should arrange for some federal
funding for British Columbia to restore the suicide crisis line;
that he should arrange federal funding for alcohol and drug
abuse. They see funding as the problem, not the hunting of food
for the survival of the tribe.
Some of you heard Senator Tkachuk's presentation last night.
Look at the Application for Registration forms with the
20 questions. This was another issue that was raised at the
hearings. A native chief from Kamloops said, "I hate to tell you
this, but there are many in my tribe who cannot read or write."
How can we reconcile the promotion of the use of those
application forms with that statement? I asked the chief, in his
opinion, although his people may not be able to read or write,
whether they would have the equivalent of a master's degree in
the safe handling of firearms, and he replied: "Yes, they are
taught from a very young age. They can safely handle guns. They
could even teach about firearms." Under this bill, no one seems
to be concerned about those kinds of things.
In Vancouver, we heard from one very impressive young
woman who was a competitive shooter. She had won at a number
of venues. This is a pastime that she enjoys pursuing with her
husband and her family. She showed us, as she said, "Exhibit A,
my small hand." She could not use a gun with a barrel any bigger
than four and a half inches. She had an expensive little Smith &
Wesson for target shooting. She told us it falls into the category
of "Saturday Night Specials." It is not, but it falls into a category
of weapons that will become restricted or abolished. Why should
she have to pay a price like that? She is a law-abiding citizen
who has done everything right. She even works for the
government as a public servant.
Of greater concern was the point made - a valid point, in my
opinion - about computer lists. People are worried about that.
This is not propaganda emanating from the National Rifle
Association, promoting fear of being stripped of handguns. This
is a simple question: What guarantee do we have about the
security of such a list? We are now told that that list will be safe.
We had a presentation about it.
Some may recall that a number of years ago the U.S.
government invited a dozen professional hackers to test the
security of the computer systems. Within 48 hours they had
cracked every one of them. That is not very comforting. You then
read -

and we heard about this earlier today -

that the

Mulroney letter, secure in the hands of the Justice Department
and the RCMP, is out on the street. That does not provide a lot of
comfort to ordinary citizens and gun owners.

2325

Some have said, "You have ail these crazies out there who
want guns." We had one presentation in Kamloops that sounded
a bit like the National Rifle Association in its rhetoric. Senator
Ghitter was quick to draw to their attention that they did their
cause no good by exaggerating and putting forth false
information in their presentation. We put an end to that.
In addition, we had a good system, which was instituted by the
chairman, Senator St. Germain. After the formal presentations,
he allowed time, in both the morning and afternoon sessions, for
individuals in the audience to take four minutes to come forward
and express their views. Two things were made clear by both of
these groups when they made their presentations: First, they were
for crime control. They were for harsh, severe penalties against
criminals charged with the misuse of guns, but they were
opposed to national registration. They were concerned about the
costs to themselves, and many were concerned about the costs to
the government.
Someone said that if you could wave a magic wand and ail the
guns would disappear, we would have a much better and more
civilized country. I have a lot of friends in police departments. I
served with them for a number of years as their negotiator. I am
on the Vancouver Police Foundation. I speak regularly to senior
officers of both our Vancouver police and the RCMP. They say
that if you did wave a magic wand and ail the guns disappeared
within 72 hours, any criminal or anyone else could acquire a gun
from those that are smuggled across the border.
I am talking here about the police, and that is their position, in
spite of the position taken by the Canadian Chiefs of Police
Association. I understand why they would make such a
presentation, since they must be seen to be on the side of
motherhood and gun control. However, I am told that to meet the
registration requirements of this legislation they will have to take
from resources within their various police departments; resources
that should be used for fighting crime, and and that it will turn
them into bookkeepers and registrars. They aiso say that if they
do not get federal funding to assist in this undertaking, they
simply will not do it.
We heard a presentation from the Kamloops department - a
three-man RCMP department - whose concern is that one-third
of their force will be doing registrations and will not have time to
deal with matters of police responsibility.
The conclusion is that we will incur costs of millions of
dollars. I do not accept the premise that it will balance out nice
and neat. That is nonsense. It never works that way. It will cost
ordinary Canadians millions of dollars - ranchers, farmers,
natives, and so on, who use guns as tools of their trade, or for
their livelihood. Who knows how many millions, but it will be
significant. I could understand the expenditure if we knew that
this legislation would have some effect on crime issues, or solve

aIl] the problerns about which we are concerned. However, we
know up-fronl. based on the New Zealand experience. the
Australian experience and the U.K. experience. that gun
registration does nol work. The maximum that they were able to
achieve in New Zealand and Australia was approxirnately 60 per
cent registration. The key feature in ail those jurisdictions was
the same: They had to take frorn resources thal could have been
used for policing.
1 would support a tougher crime control bill in a single, pure
forrn. which would include: tougher penalties. no plea bargaining
for those who use a gun. and sorne training for judges. On one
occasion, a judge on the Supreme Court of British Columbia had
a career crirninal before him. an old bank robber who had been
charged with armed robbery with a gun. The judge said. 1I must
give you 14 years. Do you have anything t0 say before 1 pass
sentence'!" He said "Yes. judge. 1 arn 70 years of age. 1 just
cannol do 14 years."« The judge replied, "That is different. Just do
as much as you cari.-

The Hon. the Speaker pro tempore: Honourable senators.

according to the rules. the honourable senator's tirne bas expired.

Senator Lawson: I have one sentence in conclusion.
The Hon. the Speaker prtenirpore: Is it agreed, honourable
senators. that the honourable senator be allowed to finish'?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Senator Lawson: If the governrnenî ever puts logether a
tough crime conîrol bill, they will have rny support. In the
absence of that. and given the deficiencies of this bill, which
rnisleads ordinary Canadians. I will support Senator Sparrow*s
arnendrnent and the arnendments in the report of the cornrittee
in the hope that. upon retumning the bill t0 the other place. lhey
will look into a crime control bill separately.
We do nol have to punish one group of Canadians for whaî we
wanî to do t0 another group of Canadians. Therelore, 1 will
oppose Bill C-68.

Hon. Leonard J. Gustafson: Honourable senators. 1 risc to
speak on Bill C-68. First. I wanî to congratulate the cornrittee
for the work il did. Second, I want t0 congratulate the senators
who travelled t0 hear frorn Canadians across the country. People
of the rural areas, in particular. were very appreciative of the fact
that those senators bad corne to hear wbat tbey bad 10 say. 1 wanl
t0 clarify one lhing - and several comments have been made
about Ibis point: These people are the best educated people when
il cornes to tirearrns safety. Many of thern are sportsmen, farmers
and natives who bave taken training in the use of firearrns. Tbey
are not illiterate people when il cornes to the use of firearrns.
As farrn boys and girls. they bave been raised t0 handle
firearms in a sale manner. They do flot have the lear of a gun that
you rnighl find in an urban centre. Unfortunately. this is

1Senai Lason

1~>i

becoming a rural/urban situation. That is flot good. We in rural
Canada arc in the rninority. 1 speak f'or native people. farmers and
ranchers. hunters and trappers. We are a minority.
1 should like to rernind honourable senators of something that
the Right Honourable Pierre Elliott Trudeau said. He said: "A
nation can be judged on the way they deal with their minorities."
While we farmers. ranchers and native people may be in the
rninority. we are very important to, Canada. We are good citizens
who produce for this country, and who happen to, see things in a
littie different ligbt. 1 ask you for one thing: Give us a little
consideration in this bill.
Senator Sparrow gave an excellent exhortation here on the
practicalities of agiculture and of' the native people. 1 will not
take up a lot of your tirne because 1 know that other senators on
both sides wanl 10 speak about ibis matter. However. I want to
place a couple of things on the record.
We heard from the people in Manitoba, Saskatchewan,
Alberta, British Columbia and Whitehorse, Yukon. I remember
particularly a couple of young native l'ellows. perhaps 18 or
19 years of age. who made an excellent statement. They said
something to the effect: Does it corne as any surprise to you
people that we do flot live in four-storey apartments? Many limes
we are out in a tent in the sumrner; or we are in a one-room
cabin. We have been taught frorn a young age that that gun is
hanging over the door. loaded, should we encouniter a brown bear
or another animal - and a tent is no problem for tbern to destroy
and should we need to protect ourselves. We saw on the news
what can happen in the national park wesl of Calgary just this
surnimer.
Is our legislalion practical?! 1 arn talking about sone of' the
legislation thal was broughl in by our own goverfiment but has
neyer been enacted or tried on farmers. Il is the sarne thing.
a (1I11)

By way of a personal example of that. ahout three weeks ago.
1 was cultivating one of rny son's fields. Frorn across the field
came a coyote that looked bigger than a wolf. A cattle berd was
grazing nearby. which included srnall calves. The coyote watched
the herd while the cows formed a circle. Had 1 mun home to gel
the gun out of the cabinet and the ammunition frorn another
place. the coyote would have been long gone before 1 returned.
1 cite those examples pertaining 10 the native cornrunity and
the rancbing comrnunity only to say that we must be practical.
Let us try te, understand the different regions of this country.
We heard frorn native people, including aI least three chiefs
wbo represented largely populated areas. One represented
24 bands from the Prince Albert area. andanother represented a
number of bands frorn The Pas. We also heard frorn Soi
Sanderson frorn Regina. They aIl basically said that native
people would nol abide by this legislation.

November 22, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

As a good Canadian citizen, it disturbs me to hear others make
those kinds of remarks. We asked them: "Are you telling us that
you will not abide by this legislation; that you will not register
your guns?" They said, "We will not." We heard that time and
time again. We heard it from veterans, from clubs and from
individuals. Honourable senators, it is a divisive issue. We do
not need more issues that will divide this country.
It behooves every honourable senator to look at this legislation
in terms of criminalization and in terms of how it affects the
people who use guns as tools and not as weapons.
We are not opposed to clamping down on criminal activity, on
guns being brought across the border illegally. We are in favour
of that. We must crack down on criminals and give them
adequate punishment. This legislation must have the ability to
deal with those situations. However, we must not penalize the
law-abiding people who are opposed to this legislation, even
though we are a minority. We may only comprise one-third of the
population of the country; but we are a very important one-third.
We have a voice. I represent those people in Saskatchewan and in
the west in general.
I know of the concerns in our large urban centres, and there is
no question that those are legitimate concerns. However, I feel
very safe walking on the streets of Macoun, a village of
150 people. I know almost everyone in every house in the
village. I know that every farmer has a gun, but I feel safe
nonetheless, as I should. I wish all of Canada were like that
village.
I will cite one statistic before I close. In Switzerland, every
able-bodied man has a gun, because he is a member of the
reserve army. The guns are not .22 calibre guns; they are larger
guns. Yet, Switzerland has one of the lowest crime rates in the
world. The same is true of Denmark, Sweden and Norway.
I have heard many speeches here about the atrocities
committed with guns. Most of us have lived through enough
history to know who has committed the greatest atrocities with
guns. A female senator spoke eloquently about the use of power.
The greatest misuse of power has been by ill-directed
governments and dictators who, with armies and police forces,
have annihilated many thousands of people.
Our greatest concern must be to ensure that the Govemment of
Canada works for the people, rather than the people working for
the govemment. Many people have had too much government
interference in their lives, and want no more of it.
Honourable senators, I ask you to give this matter serious
consideration so that this legislation can deal practically with all
of the requirements of every part of this great country in order
that we might build a better Canada.

[Translation]

Hon. Rose-Marie Losier-Cool: Honourable senators, it is a
pleasure to speak to you today about Bill C-68.
Bill C-68 deals with firearms, a subject of particular concern
to me and to all Canadians.
[English]

Bill C-68 provides an important framework for preserving that
deep sense of civility and peacefulness which is part of our
heritage. The proposed firearms legislation has been drafted in
order to help preserve the kind of country we as Canadians want,
and to reflect the values that are fundamental to it.
[Translation]

This bill, which has been under consideration for many
months, will help us correct some of the many problems
connected with firearms in Canada. Once in place, the measures
proposed in Bill C-68 will help reduce the number of incidents or
deaths caused by firearms.
Women are certainly not immune to such incidents. In fact, on
average, one woman is shot to death every six days.
Between 1974 and 1992, 42 per cent of the women who were
killed by their spouses were shot. Canadians understand what
happens in a society where firearms are available to criminals
and to people who are a threat to themselves or to others,
including women and children in violent or high-stress situations.
Although domestic volence is a complex problem that cannot
be solved simply by passing a stricter gun control bill and
increasing controls over access to firearms, we will be able to
avoid a few more tragedies.
I am concerned about amendment number three, which would
exempt museums from paying the cost of firearms registration.
As a member of the board of directors of the museum of New
Brunswick, I realize that the budgets of our museums can no
longer absorb additional costs in these times of budgetary
restrictions. The 100,000 firearms in our Canadian museums
must be registered, otherwise they would be given special status,
which would undermine the universality of this bill.
[English]

The term of museum licences will be three years as opposed to
one year for other businesses. This modification was made at the
House of Commons committee stage of the review of Bill C-68
in order to reduce any possible administrative burden on
museums, which are widely variable in size, and to facilitate a
reduced fee.
In terms of fees, actual amounts have not yet been determined
for any type of business, including museums. The fees, once set,
will be submitted in regulations to Parliament for a full review.

[Translation]

The deparîment bas already advised government
representatives and otbers defending the interesîs of museumrs
that il appreciates the fact that îhey generally operate on a
non-profit basis. on limited budgets, and Ibat the rates would be
establisbed accordingly. Furthermore. îhey would be esîablisbed
on a full cost recovery basis, and there is considerable empbasis
on modern îecbnology that would make il possible t0 operate
more etficiently.
In concluding. I would like 10 quote from Ibis morning's
Le Droit. I arn referring to an article by Murray Maltais. in which
be said:
According to tbeir conscience

-

He said that today. senators will vote according
conscience, and went oni 10 state:

I am opposed to these amendiments. Bill C-68 will receive my
support and that of tbe maizjority of' Canadians, in addition 10 tbe
support of many national organi/ations that came to testify
before tbe parliamentary committees.
[En glishl
I1521)>

Hon. A. Raynell Andreychuk: Honourable senators. I will
restrict my comments t0 a number of areas, althougb I bave
concems on botb sides of Ibis issue that I wisb we bad more time
10 discuss.
Honourable senators, I grew up in Ibis country understanding
and accepting two concepts. Tbe first was that. in the democracy
tbat I thougbt Canada had. the will of the majority wouhd prevail,
flot at the expense of a minority but îaking into account the views
of that minority. This was especiahly true if the minority were
disproportionately affected. Sensitivity was the key and civility
was the rule.
Second. 1 grew up in a Canada that looked at criminal law
starting with the question of what bebaviour or action we would
find collectively intolerable. In most cases. t0 be successful. a
criminal law requires significant support from those affected to
be effective. Utilizing tbe Criminal Code for social engineering is
rarely successful. We are most successful when the rules are rules
wbich we aIl understand, and wbicb we are able to protect. In

1Seiîaior Losie> -Cool 1

I make those comments. honourable senators, because those
two concepts underpin where I wish to start. While 1 believe that
we should be governed by our conscience, I respectfully disagree
with Senator Johnson in the most vehement terms. This bill,
uniquely, sets out a tiduciary relationship.
I will return to this point, but before 1 do, 1 want 10 say that 1
have deep regrets with respect to Bill C-68. 1 regret that the bill
does flot go far enough or fast enougb in its stated objective of
atîacking the criminal use of firearms. I regret that the roots of
violence are flot attacked sufficiently. We are again dealing with
the symptoms. We are trying t0 cure, flot prevent.

to their

The amendments proposed by the Conservative majority
in the Upper House are basically aimed at making the bill
less strict. 10 more or less legalize the possession of arms
that are readily available, wbich would of course be
welcomed by the powerful hobby financed by tbe people
involved in the manufacture and sale of firearms.

0

(ther words, we build a fence witbin which normal, appropriate
bebaviour is tolerable. If you go beyond the limiits. that is
criminal behaviour. We try t0 leave as mucb room l'or people t0
use their own discretion with the changing limes.

I regret that there
registration within
non-conventional use
cannot combat the
international sîrategy

is no overall strategy to look at firearm
the context of the conventional and
of weapons in the international setîing. We
improper use of firearms without an
like the drug strategy.

We must understand that globalization is a factor in our daily
lives, and I regret that Ibis bill is silent except when talking about
holding our borders accounitable 10 the extent that the bill
oullines, which I believe is inadequate.
I also regret that Bill C-68, the Young Offenders Act and many
other criminal statutes do flot have a wellness model for justice.
At least we are struggling in the field of health to use a wellness
model. flot a curative model. We have a long way bo go in justice
10 make that adjusîment.
I regret that the will 0f the majority does flot function in such
a way as to take mbt account tbe minorities.
Honourable senators. I would returfi f0w 10 what I believe are
our fiduciary duties. The duty of Parliament is flot 10 say that Ibis
legishation is inconvenient t0 our aboriginal peoples; the issue is
mucb deeper. and il does a disservice 10 the aboriginal people
and 10 our history to say that, 10 îbem. it is simply inconvenient
legislation.
History tells us Ibat the rigbts we gave aboriginal peoples are
flot to be trifled with. and flot 10 be taken ligbtly. If we consider
section 35 of the Constitution, and if we consider the treaties, the
covenants, the agreements we signed, we must ask ourselves:
Did we sign tbem as people of integrity? Did we sign them as
people who care about their word? Did we sign tbem as people
who care about the rule of law? Did we sign them because we
believe in democratic principles? If we did not. we can continue
being paîernalistic and fragmented; and we have no right 10
believe that our values are wortb keeping. I feel very strongly
about this.

November 22, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

Honourable senators, we can trace our treaties and covenants
to the Sparrow case and to section 35 of the Constitution Act,
1982. I will point out a number of areas in the Sparrow decision
because I think it is something that we all should have read, or
should read before we vote today.
The Supreme Court in the Sparrow decision stated the
following:
For many years, the rights of Indians to their aboriginal
lands -

certainly legal rights -

were virtually ignored.

The Supreme Court went on to say that, to the credit of the
Honourable Jean Chrétien, Minster of Indian Affairs, there was
an expression of acknowledged responsibility, but by no means a
legal right. Then we, the people of Canada, incorporated
section 35 into the Constitution Act, 1982.
The court went on to state:
It is clear, then, that s. 35(1) of the Constitution Act, 1982,
represents the culmination of a long and difficult struggle in
both the political forum and the courts for the constitutional
recognition of aboriginal rights.
The judgment states further that the following principle that
should govern the interpretation of Indian treaties and statutes
was set out in a number of decisions before the 1982
constitutional changes, but that nothing has changed before 1982
or after in this principle. The principle is that, when it comes to
governing the interpretation of Indian treaties and statutes,
"treaties and statutes relating to Indians should be liberally
construed and doubtful expressions resolved in favour of the
Indians."
Another principle enunciated in these cases was the emphasis
on the importance of Indian history and traditions as well as the
perceived effect of a treaty at the time of execution.
•0

53M>

The judge also cautioned against determining Indian rights "in
a vacuum." The honour of the Crown is involved in the
interpretation of Indian treaties and, as a consequence, fairness to
the Indians is the governing consideration. The principles to be
applied to the interpretation of treaties have been canvassed over
the years. However, in approaching the terms of a treaty, quite
apart from the other considerations already noted, as the decision
in fact states:
...the honour of the Crown is always involved, and no
appearance of 'sharp dealing' should be sanctioned.
This view is reflected in recent judicial decisions which
have emphasized the responsibility of Government to

2329

protect the rights of Indians arising from the special trust
relationship created by history, treaties and legislation.
Further on in the Sparrow decision, it is stated that the
govemment has the responsibility to act in a fiduciary capacity
with respect to aboriginal peoples.
I believe that every senator must understand that that fiduciary
relationship, as laid out in the British North America Act, is on
your shoulders. The decision goes on:
The relationship between the Government and aboriginals is
trust-like, rather than adversarial, and contemporary
recognition and affirmation of aboriginal rights must be
defined in light of this historic relationship.
I believe we have a duty to act on a trust basis with the
aboriginal people, and not on an adversarial basis. The minister
pointed out to the Legal and Constitution Affairs Committee that
the onus is on the aboriginal peoples to prove the infringement of
their rights. That is true, if we go to court. It is true that they
must prove a prima facie case that this act infringes their rights.
It is also true that the rights of the aboriginals are not absolute. In
other words, national interest and public interest can overrule
these aboriginal rights. However, the power to legislate must be
read together with these two comments.
In other words, the minister is saying, "I am putting legislation
into place. Let the aboriginal people prove that they are being
infringed upon." Is that not adversarial? Is that really trust?
Section 35 quite properly points out that we cannot avoid our
duties. The inclusion of clause 2(3) into Bill C-68 does not help
our fiduciary responsibility. In fact, the constitutional experts
have indicated that this clause does not take away or, indeed, add
to aboriginal rights.
In my opinion, consultation only occurred after the bill was
tabled. In fact, by letter, the minister advised that there would be
some gun control legislation, and I respect that that effort was
made. However, I do not accept that that is proper and adequate
consultation, nor is the fact that the minister then met with a
number of groups in a general way. I do not believe that that is
adequate consultation. At that point, the aboriginal community
had already been forced into an adversarial role. There was the
bill. They had not sat down at the table to discuss it. What else
could they do but start talking to the minister about what they
liked and disliked and to express their fears?
Someone asked why they had not raised this issue with regard
to Bill C-17. If I had been here when Bill C-17 was being
considered, I would have raised the same questions, because I
think they may have applied. However, the wrongs of the past
cannot be brought forward as justification for the wrongs being
committed today.

In my opinion, all indications are that aboriginals were not
consulted appropriately. If you look at the bill. honourable
senators, you will see that there is nothing in it for aboriginal
people. They were not consulted; they did not sit down at the
table; they did not get to the point of being able to talk about
their rights.
Although I do not have the time today, I believe that we
senators should take the time to read the decisions and the
comments of the aboriginal community. Suffice it to say that it is
not good enough to consider aboriginal rights in the formulation
of regulations. It is not good enough to consider aboriginal rights
by saying, "Trust me. we will correct it."
There is nothing in the bill which says that we have looked to
the constitutional imperatives that are put forward. The minister
indicated that he had consulted with the aboriginal community.
Virtually every aboriginal leader in Canada has told us that be or
she was not consulted on Bill C-68.
That creates a dilemma for us, honourable senators. Do we
accept that there was adequate consultation because the minister
said that there was? Do we accept that there was not just because
all the aboriginal leaders said there was not? I do not believe that
is the position we should take. We should look to the legislation
to determine our responsibilities. In my opinion, our
responsibilities are to ensure that there is not an adversarial
situation between the aboriginal peoples and the Crown. but a
trust-like situation.
There is nothing in the bill that indicates to me that the
government took into account aboriginal rights. The minister,
however, after tabling the bill set in place an adequate program to
look at regulations and how they will affect aboriginal people.
This comes as a result of clause 17(u), which indicates that
cultural situations and aboriginal rights must be taken into
account so as to have the least form of intrusion on aboriginal
rights. However, the clause is permissive. It states that the
minister "may."

Canadians is attending the international aboriginal talks in
Geneva. Not one of them is aboriginal.
At every turn we continue Io overlook opportunities to live up
to our fiduciary responsibilities and to abide by the obligations
that I think have been placed upon us. The minister says that he
has consulted. In his first appearance before the committee he
said that he would consider amendments to the bill and that he
wanted to improve it. He said that he had concern for aboriginal
issues. However, when he arrived for his last discussion with the
committee, he said, with regard to consultation, that the court
states that the minimum requirement is to inform the aboriginal
peoples of Canada. and that he had at least done that.
Honourable senators, I do not think that, after so many years.
we should still be doing what is minimal for aboriginals. We
should do what is honourable and expected.

The minister also indicated:
My experience with the animal called "consultation" is
that it bears the meaning which the person using the word
chooses to give it. Consultation, in my experience. only
exists if you do exactly what the person being consulted
asks you to do. Let me give you an example.
The example of course is of the Yukon.
I believe that if we are to take consultation seriously, we
cannot start out by believing that those who consult simply want
their way. The aboriginal people want to be at the table. They
have a right to be at the table; they have a right to be heard. We
have not given them a full and adequate hearing. We did not
bring them into the process early enough.

At every turn, and I do not have time to go through all of it.
whenever the issue of aboriginal rights -

The constitutional experts said that consultation was a
precondition to the passage of this bill. Have we, in tact, met that
precondition? Mr. Binnie, who gave a long assessment. said that
the consultations had to be before the bill was proclaimed and
that we could, in fact, have the consultation. In committee,
Mr. Binnie said:

The Hon. the Speaker: I hesitate to interrupt the honourable
senator but her time has expired. Is there leave for the
honourable senator to continue her remarks?

However, one way or another, consultation is established
as a condition precedent which must be satisfied before a
valid limitation can be imposed.

Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Senator Andreychuk: I thank honourable senators.
Had clause 117 been put in place earlier, it might have been of
value. It could have been of value if it stated that the minister
"shall" make regulations. However. that was not the case.
Honourable senators, after over 100 years of saying that we
care about the rule of law. we have breached our fiduciary
responsibilities. As I understand it. a delegation of eight

1Scnlatoi

Aindrevchuk]

Then Senator Beaudoin, the chairman, asked Professor Hogg if
he agreed with that statement. and Professor Hogg, who I think
most of us rely heavily on in constitutional law said: "Yes, I
agree with that."
In other words. consultation is a condition precedent. It cannot
be something that can be perfected after the act is passed. If that
is the case, honourable senators, I have a dilemma. While I want
the gun control bill. do I have to sacrifice aboriginal rights? Do I
have to put my own opinions before my responsibilities to the
aboriginal people?

November 22, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

Not being blessed with the wisdom of Solomon, I have been
seeking the opinion of other senators as to what we should do in
this case. I agreed with Senator Carstairs that the amendment put
forward on aboriginal people did not go far enough, that it
perhaps restated known law and known positions. I thought it
was an honest compromise, a compromise that would have
acknowledged that we have not done what we should in terms of
consultations, and that would have demonstrated that we respect
our fiduciary relationships by undertaking to ask the minister to
conduct more consultations.
We would not then be put in the position of saying that the
minister's consultations were adequate or not; and we would not
put the aboriginal community in a position where we would
disagree with them and say that we believe they were consulted,
or that we accept their word in that regard. In other words, I do
not believe we should be that adversarial. The amendment would
allow us to have a compromise.

I will vote for the amendment because I think the minister can
speedily call all the aboriginal people together and sit down at
the table with them. As Minister Irwin has said, we must sit at
the table with them and discuss this matter.
I have yet to find one aboriginal leader who does not want
some form of gun control, who does not want firearms
regulation. Their concern is that their rights are respected and
that they have a say as to how this legislation will be
implemented within their reserves, their territories. I do not
believe that anything less is desirable.
I find myseif in a conundrum, in that I believe in the fiduciary
responsibility that consultation is a condition precedent, and that
we should not pass this bill until such time as the consultation
takes place. Nonetheless, I am still willing to vote for the
amendment that in some way diminishes, perhaps, or puts aside
for a time, aboriginal rights completely, but allows a form of
compromise. We cannot do anything less than attempt a
compromise respecting this bill.
I appeal to the minister, and I appeal to honourable senators,
not to disregard this aspect in. haste, because we will then be
continuing the legacy of paternalism which has caused so many
difficulties for aboriginal peoples.
We talk about victims of violence. There are many types of
violence. I have not told my personal, emotional stories of how it
has touched me, but I can assure you that it touches me as much
as it touches anyone else. We cannot put our personal tragedies
before the rights of the aboriginal peoples because, if you want to
see death, if you want to see destruction, if you want to see
disruption in its rawest, crudest form, you will find that it has
happened to their people, and we have been, in part, responsible
for their problems. Surely it is time that we became part of the
solution.
We cannot force the aboriginal community to go to the courts
so that, one more time, someone can ask, "What do they want

2331

now?" If we do that, we encourage what is already a growing
pocket of what I believe is discrimination between
non-aboriginals and aboriginals in some areas, because some
people believe the aboriginals are in court too often asking for
too much. What they are now seeking is what they were entitled
to at the start: nothing more, nothing less. We do them a
disservice by forcing them to seek a judicial remedy. As Senator
Forsey said, and I paraphrase him, that in a well-functioning
democracy, citizens should not have to go to court to prove their
rights. If there is any doubt, we must find some other way of
dealing with it.
I also have a concern that, if we do not deal with this
legislation now, the law will not be universal because the
outcome of a win for the aboriginal people in the courts will be
that the law does not apply to them. If the law does not apply to
them, how do non-aboriginals and aboriginals live together in the
communities in the North and in the West, in Ontario, in Quebec,
and in Atlantic Canada? We must help the aboriginal community
to contribute its full share to the destiny of Canada, and we
cannot separate our people.
So little separates us now. What separates us is not the fact that
we do not have a valid national objective that is justified; what
separates us is not that there is one way or another way of
legislating gun control; what separates us is that we have not
taken into account people who have a right to be included.
Many of the things that I believe about aboriginal rights are
not enshrined in rights, per se, and they are equally valid with
regard to the minorities in Canada who must also be considered.
If we want to be judged as a fair and just society, we must bring
them to the table, whether it is with regard to this piece of
legislation or another piece of legislation. In this instance we
have a fiduciary relationship. It is a legal requirement beyond a
moral requirement.
The United Nations Human Rights Centre, in its study of
indigenous people, said that many treaties carry a great symbolic
meaning to indigenous peoples. In Canada, those treaties are
more than symbolic, they are actual legal rights. They are seen as
providing recognition of indigenous self-determination and a
guarantee of the collective rights of the peoples concerned. An
agreement which has the character of a solemn pledge by one
people to another, when fully honoured by both parties, breeds
mutual trust and respect, and has a potentially vital role in
promoting and protecting human rights and fundamental
freedoms of indigenous peoples.
Honourable senators, aboriginal rights in Canada are human
rights. In our zeal to correct many of society's problems, let us
not create even more tragic ones.

We can find a middle road. It is unfortunate that we have
needlessly pitted one group of citizens against another. Let us not
further compound the problem.

[Translation]

Hon. Jean-Robert Gauthier: Honourable senators. 1 would
like to express my support for Bill C-68, an act respecting
tirearms and other weapons.
1 endorse the arguments of my colleague Senator Carstairs,
who has clearly analyzed the amendments before us and has
followed this bill in committee in a mosi exemplary manner. 1
would like to thank her for her work and to tel! her that 1
personally have greatly appreciated the way she has conducted
herself. As you know, I feel that the Senate is the bouse in wbich
regional considerations need to be expressed. I have no problem
in listening to various senators eloquently defend the views of
their regions.
In rny region, I must tell you. there is majority support for
Bill C-68. In Ontario, 82 per cent are in favour of the bill and
77 per cent support weapon registration.
Like aIl of the other senators, 1 have received briefs, letters. ail]
manner of communications concemning Bill C-68. 1 arn neither
surprised nor inordinately influenced by letters that have
sometimes been copied from other letters in maiI-in campaigns. 1
believe that they do have a message to get across.
There is one thing I have noticed. In the National Capital
Region. almost ail letters and comments to me were in support of
the bill. I must admit that the bulk of the other ietters, from
Western Canada, were against it.
1 arn an Ontario senator and therefore represent my region. and
the views 1 express here in the Senate today will be those of a
senator who believes strongly that this chamber bas a duty to
retlect regional considerations.
If I may, 1 shahl read just a l'ew examples of the testimoniais
received from people 1 believe to be credible and serious.
[En glish]
The letter is signed by Brian Ford. Chief of Police.
Ottawa-Carleton Regional Police Services. 1 will read just one
sentence:
I arn writing to you... to convey to you our support for the
passage of Bill C-68 on gun control. Gun control is to the
police community a very important piece of legislation
because it is both preventative and aiso gives a starting point
for the investigation of crimes invoiving firearms.
I bave a letter from Marion Dewar, Chair, Ottawa Regional
Police Services Board, approving of Bill C-68.
[Translation]
1 have
otherwise
quote a
Canadian

numerous letters but I shaîl read only a few of them.
it would take ail afternoon. I would. however. like to
few sample comments trom the President of the
Association of Chiefs of Police. who states as follows:

[En glish]
He writes to Senator Lynch-Staunton:
I arn writing to express my considerable dismay that neither
you nor the Caucus He is talking about the Conservative caucus.
would meet with representatives of the Canadian
Association of Chiefs of Police.

He goes on to say:
...the Canadian Association of Chiefs of Police wishes to
confirni and cîarify that they support the passage of
Bill C-68 by the Senate of Canada without amendment.
The Canadian Federation of University Women wrote to me on
November 16 expressing their support for Bill C-68. 1 could go
on - the Canadian Teachers* Federation, the Canadian Public
Health Association. and so on.
However, honourable senators, I have received from my region
alone credible support for Bill C-68.
[Translation]
In the 1993 election, the Liberal Party undertook, in its Red
Book. to provide a more rigorous control of firearms. This is
what we said. I ran in those elections: 1 supported this measure
then, and continue to support it now.
Revenue Canada and the RCMP have already implemented
certain measures in the fight against smuggiing. The passing of
the bill before us marks another important stage in the
commitments made by the government and supported by the
peo pIe of Canada in 1993.
These measures include. among other things. minimum
imprisonment of four years plus the prohibition in perpetuity of
possession of restricted or prohibited firearms following a
conviction for one of the 10 designated violent offences
perpetrated with a firearm; the prohibition against future
importing and seliing of .25 and .32 calibre handguns, and
handguns with a barrel length of 105 mm or less; the creation ot
a national systemn for the registration of aIl firearms. to be
administered by the RCMP. in cooperation with the provinces
and territories.
1 do not need to tell you 1 have heard arguments against the
registration of firearms. 1 have not heard or seen. nor have I seen
in the amendments. a single proposaI that would imp rove the
system.
have seen amendments eiiminating certain things. I arn sorry,
but you cannot oppose a part and. at the sarne tirne. support the
whole thino. National interest rnust prevail.

November 22, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

2333

I can understand the reluctance of some senators from the
West and the North, who want to eliminate firearms registration
from the application of the bill. However, it is only one of the
measures. We cannot kill the bill because we do not agree with
one of its provisions. I think that national interest must prevail
and that this bill will improve our chances of having a safe
country.

This study also showed that nearly half the firearms recovered
by police in the urban centres examined were rifles or shotguns,
and that they were used in criminal cases.

The firearms registration system will help the police solve
murder cases when a gun is recovered, and determine the origin
of recovered firearms, allowing the police to return to their
legitimate owners some of the 3,000 weapons that are lost or
stolen every year, which, I assume, will prompt owners to store
their weapons more securely.

In 1993, two years after the adoption of Bill C-17 tightening
gun control, the reported crime rate fell by 5 per cent, the biggest
drop since 1962. The proportion of firearm-related deaths homicides or unknown causes - reported in Canada shrank from
36 per cent in 1991 to 34 per cent in 1992 and 31 per cent in
1993.

Bill C-68 will make it possible to provide gun owners with
direct and inexpensive information on firearms storage and
handling regulations. It will also enable the police to know how
many and what kind of firearms they might face when answering
an emergency call.

Whether it is a father who decides to commit suicide or to kill
his family, a group of young offenders who fire at a passer-by, or
an individual who shoots a convenience store cashier, we are all
concerned about this kind of violence and we want the means to
fight it. As I was saying, the polls show that Canadians support
this bill. According to a poll conducted by Angus Reid for
Southam News, the majority of Canadians, 66 per cent, support
this bill.

Honourable senators, the vast majority of murders by firearm
are committed by someone known to the victim. In Canada, a
woman is killed by a firearm every six days, most often at home
by someone she knew, using a legally owned rifle or shotgun.
Making access to firearms more difficult in cases of domestic
violence is a public security measure.
We never claimed that this bill would definitively solve the
problem of family violence, or put an end to all violence in our
society, as some of the speakers I heard here have said. This is
not a piece of legislation which will solve crimes; it is a measure
that will help to better organize crime prevention.
Let me quote the Report of the Firearms Smuggling Work
Group:
There are approximately seven million firearms in
Canada. ... About one in four Canadian households owns at
least one firearm. About 1,400 Canadians die each year in
an incident involving a firearm: 78 per cent in suicides;
15 per cent in homicides; 5 per cent in accidents; and
2 per cent from a legal intervention or some undetermined
cause.
It goes on, and I quote:
Half of all firearm homicides since 1991 have been
committed with a handgun: this constitutes an increase from
about 35 per cent prior to 1991. It has been estimated that,
each year, there are almost 10,000 firearm-related violent
crimes in Canada. About 8,000 of these are firearm
robberies - firearm robberies increased by 44 per cent
from 1988 to 1993.

Some 10 per cent of Criminal Code offences are violent
crimes. Yet, 40 per cent of the crimes in which firearms were
recovered were violent. This finding shows an important link
between firearms and violence.

Honourable senators, I heard leading lights say that this bill
needed to be improved. We have considered the proposed
amendments. I did not find a single amendment that improved
the bill. Not a single one. Some may tell me that I misread the
bill; it is possible. Honourable senators. every amendment has
been debated in this chamber.
I, for one, think that this bill should be adopted today, without
amendment, so that it can be ratified as soon as possible.
Honourable senators, I will not take any more time, because I
know that several senators wish to address this issue. I will
conclude by saying this: I listened to people in my community, I
heard very eloquent expressions of support of this bill by
honourable senators, and I am convinced that, in supporting this
bill, I am doing what I should be doing as a senator. Honourable
senators, I represent my region and I care dearly about the
national interest. I will vote in favour of Bill C-68.
*

(1600)

[English]
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, before I call on
the next speaker, I want to apprise you of a problem that we
have. It is now five minutes after four, which leaves us one hour
and ten minutes before the bell must ring. I have presently on my
list approximately 12 speakers. Quite obviously, at 15 minutes
for each speaker, it would be impossible to hear from every one
of those senators. Could we have an agreement that we limit
speeches to a shorter period than that: for example, a maximum
of 10 minutes? I am in your hands. If it could be less than ten
minutes, it would be preferable, so that everyone gets a chance to
express their views. Would that be agreeable?

Some Hon. Senators: No!
Hon. Eric Arthur Berntson (Deputy Leader of the
Opposition): Honourable senators, 1 should like to accommodate
everyone. However, the rules say that the speeches must be
limited to 15 minutes. From here until the bell commences, we
should follow the rule book as strictly as we can.
1 know that some people have an argument to make that they
could not make in less than 15 minutes, but 1 would urge ail
senators to stay within the time limit of 15 minutes, if they can.
in an effort to accommodate ail senators to the extent that we
can. I expect that both leaders would want the opportunity to
wrap up for their respective sides. That leaves us little more than
haîf an hour.

Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of thie
Government): Honourable senators. bearing in mmnd what the
Deputy Leader of the Opposition has said, we on this side would
be quite comfortable in limiting future speeches to 10 minutes.
However, if the opposition prefers to go by what is provided
under the rules. namely to the maximum of 15 minutes. then that
is fine. In any event. we should be mindful that at 5:15 p.m.. ail
debate ceases:, the bells will begin to ring. and ail votes will be
taken at 5:30 p.m.

Senator Berntson: Honourable senators. in keeping with what
is the Canadian way. could we find a reasonable compromise and
limit to ten minutes the speeches of those who do not hold our
respective leaders' chairs, as it were? 1 am sure that your leader
would want to have more than ten minutes for her wrap-up on
this bill. and 1 amn sure that in the case of my leader. he would
want to have more than ten minutes. Perhaps at quarter to the
hour. or 20 minutes to the hour or whatever, we could agree to
have our respective leaders wrap up the debate, taking whatever
time is leit.
Senator Graham: My leader assures me that she will not go
over 15 minutes. She could whittle it down to ten. but if the
Leader of the Opposition would like to have 15 minutes, we are
prepared to accommodate him. perhaps at the appropriate time.
The problemt 1 amn having right now, however, is that we are
using up valuable time in discussing this arrangement. Could we
agree that others participating in the debate be limited to ten
minutes. and that the leaders have the regular 15 minutes?

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourabie senators, is it my
understanding that we are agreed that 1 will cail each speaker at
ten minutes until quarter to flve, at which time 1 will be prepared
to recognize the Leader of the Opposition; and then at
five o'clock. the Leader of Government. Is that understanding
agreed?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
The Hon. the Speaker: On that understanding. then. 1
recognize Senator Atkins. 1 wiIi need 10 be very strict on that
limit of ten minutes. 1 appeal to honourable senators. If they can

keep their speeches to less than ten minutes. that would
accommodate other senators who wili then have a chance to
speak.
Hon. Norman K. Atkins: Honourable senators,
with most citizens, 1 favour a form of crime
legislation. 1 arn even in favour of the registration
However. I have some real difficulties with this bill,
because 1 believe that it is seriously flawed.

in common
prevention
of lirearrns.
unamended,

The Standing Senate Committee on Legal and Constitutional
Affairs has proposed a number of amendiments to Bill C-68, the
firearms bill. 1 would like to express some of my concerns
regarding this bill.

I wish to state clearly at the outset that these changes alone
wiII not resoive al] the difficulties which have been hrought to
our attention through the thousands of letters received, the
testimony heard by the committee and the meetings which have
been held with concernied citi/ens.
The first issue we need to address is the constitutionality of
Bill C-68 as it relates to the aboriginal peoples. The first part of
that issue is whether the consultation process has been adequate
and meaningful. It is clear that the ahoriginal people are united in
expressing their dissatisfaction with some aspects of this
legislation. Senator Andreychuk has made a very strong case
with regard to this point.
While in Canada we have some of the toughest gun control
legisiation in the world, there is a presumption that a citizen ks
entitled to possess a tirearm such as a rifle or a shotgun. Citizens
owning such firearms are not. in general. presumed to be
criminals-in-waiting or criminals of the day.
Bill C-68, unamended, will change that. It will become
necessary for our citizens to prove, on demand by authorities,
that they have not committed a criminai offence, by producing
both a licence to possess the firearm and a registration certificate.
The ability to provide such proof should clearly be
administrative, not criminai.
It has been said that for a long time Canadians have registered
their cars, dogs, marriages, births, et cetera. However, failure to
do so does not resuit in a charge under the Criminal Code. If this
bill passes without amendment, the consequences of not
registering a rifle or a shotgun will bc out of proportion to the
seriousness of the offence. I believe that these offences should be
moved from the Criminal Code to the Firearms Act, unless the
offence involves a prohibited or restricted firearm.
As a summary conviction oftènce. failure to register a firearm
stili carnies a substantial penalty. The maximum jail termn is six
months and the maximum fine is $2.000, which is administered
at the discretion of the judge. The penalties allow sufficient
flexibility to impose suitable punishment. We should bear in
mmnd that these charges are independent of any other offence an

November 22, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

individual may have committed. Clearly, this still allows the
government to create a national registry, does not alter the
intention of the registry, and does not interfere with the court's
discretion.
Most provisions of Bill C-68, amended, will still come into
effect at the same time in all parts of the country. The narrow
exception is that provincial governments will be permitted to
delay implementation in their jurisdictions of the licensing and
registration of rifles and shotguns. Since the offences related to
licensing and registration have been transferred to the Firearms
Act, this delayed implementation does not mean that the
Criminal Code of Canada will be applied differently in different
parts of Canada, although the Firearms Act will be.
There is ample precedent for delayed implementation of
federal legislation in some jurisdictions, not only in the case of
regular statutes but in the Criminal Code itself. Many restrictions
and regulations governing the use of rifles and shotguns for
hunting purposes now exist in the provinces, and they vary
greatly. The proposed flexibility will not create substantial
confusion, because variations already exist and Canadians are
aware of them.
Provincial governments will require positive affirmation
through their provincial legislatures to delay implementation in
their jurisdictions. Regions which feel strongly about this issue
will have the opportunity to make their decisions on behalf of the
people they represent.
There is a widespread belief that the cost of implementing the
licensing and registration schemes will be much higher than the
estimate of $85 million given by the Minister of Justice. The
experience of those provinces which proceed immediately with
all aspects of Bill C-68 will give others the opportunity to assess
some of the practical difficulties before moving ahead with the
scheme in their own jurisdictions.
The additional time granted will not involve an additional cost
to the government. The existing firearms acquisition certificate
program is essentially continued in the form of a licence to
acquire and possess firearms in the new regime, and the federal
government may be spared the costs of registering firearms in
any areas which choose to wait for a while before beginning to
implement registration and licensing.
The amendment introduced requiring that regulations made
under the Criminal Code be tabled 30 sitting days before they
come into effect is consistent with current provisions of the
Criminal Code. One of the normal functions of Parliament is to
review regulations. It is important that Parliament not surrender
its powers to at least look at regulations before they become law.
It should concern us that, as the bill is presently written, the
Governor in Council will be able to pass regulations without
them being subject to review by Parliament.

2335

Furthermore, I believe that the words "in the opinion of the
Governor in Council" should be removed. These words allow the
government to avoid judicial review. They permit the minister to
alter the status of an item, to restrict or prohibit it, and to deny
Canadians the right to meaningful appeal to the courts.
Honourable senators, we should note that this amendment was
accepted by the Justice Committee of the House of Commons
and was removed by the Minister of Justice. It seems to me that
when the majority of the members of a standing committee in
both Houses accept an amendment, it should be honoured, or at
least be given fair consideration.
I believe that the vast majority of Canadians encourage the
increase of mandatory minimum sentences for the use of firearms
in the commission of serious offences such as attempted murder,
manslaughter, robbery, sexual assault with a weapon, and so on,
and that the amendments proposed do not affect these areas. The
amendment dealing with minimum sentences in clause 92(3),
which relates only to the case of an individual who has
committed a second or third possession-related offence in the full
knowledge that it is an offence, simply gives the court the
discretion to decide whether the particular case merits a
significant jail term. It remains an indictable offence with a
maximum sentence of ten years in prison.
It is my opinion that our museums should be exempted from
the payment of fees. This will guarantee that additional costs will
not cause undue strain on their very limited resources. The
owners of antique firearms, which are almost never used in the
commission of a crime, should also be exempted from the
regulations. Antiques may be stolen from time to time, but they
are bought for their intrinsic value, not for the remote chance that
they could be used in the commission of a crime.
Honourable senators, I believe that the amendments being
proposed are modest and reasonable. They improve the
legislation and seek to reduce the impact on citizens who have
committed no crime, while maintaining licensing and registration
which is sought by the govemment.
A frequently expressed concern is that the new administrative
scheme contained in the legislation is both intrusive and
unnecessary. It adds yet another expensive level of bureaucracy,
and complying with the new provisions will take time, effort and
great care, in view of the penalties which may be applied.
I remind honourable senators that in the registration of rifles
and shotguns we are not talking about people who are
committing any criminal offence beyond failure to acquire a
document from the government. Presently in this country, we
have no minimum sentence for dangerous driving causing bodily
harm, or for manslaughter. We leave it to the courts to determine
what is appropriate based on the facts. I find it unbelievable that
a missing piece of paper could incur a heavier penalty than
killing or hurting a person.

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable Senator Atkins, I am
sorry to interrupt you, but your allotted time has expired.
Senator Atkins: I have one and a half pages remaining.
The Hon. the Speaker: Is it the pleasure of honourable
senators to allow Senator Atkins to continue?
Some Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Senator Atkins: Thank you, honourable senators.
I believe that Bill C-68, with these amendments, will enable
our courts to penalize criminals using firearms in the commission
of an offence. It will allow the courts to impose fines and jail
sentences, in conjunction with the sentence for the commission
of a crime with a weapon. This then allows Bill C-68 to become
a crime control bill while not hampering the intent of the
legislation to create a national registry.

At a time when we have just completed the highly divisive
exercise of the Quebec referendum, and at a time when the
federal government has indicated that it is prepared to look
closely at a more cooperative and flexible approach to the
concerns and wishes of provincial and territorial governments,
these amendments provide an opportunity to give a
demonstration of that new attitude of compromise and
understanding of regional needs.
Honourable senators, this is the first opportunity following the
referendum for the federal government to indicate just how
serious it is about this commitment. I hope all honourable
senators would agree that this is an appropriate means by which
to respond to the concerns many provincial governments have
raised. They are the ones who have asked for some of these
amendments. I find it inconceivable that the Minister of Justice is
not prepared to examine these amendments in an attempt to make
Bill C-68 more acceptable to Canadians from coast to coast.
Hon. Charlie Watt: Honourable senators, I stand here today
to speak to the rule of law, and our duty as senators to uphold the
Constitution of Canada. I will explain why the proposed
amendment numbered 13 - the one respecting the aboriginal
peoples of Canada - must be adopted by the Senate and by
Parliament as a whole.
As parliamentarians, we do not have a choice about respecting
the Constitution of Canada. We must - and I underline the word
"must" - uphold and defend the Constitution. This includes
ensuring that any legislation adopted by Parliament respects the
constitutionally entrenched aboriginal and treaty rights of
aboriginal peoples.
Honourable senators, this is a conclusion supported by various
legal opinions from across the country: For example, expert

testimony by Professor Mary Ellen Turpel-Lafond and Mr. Ian
Binnie before the Senate committee confirmed, in the strongest
possible language, that there are very serious problems with this
bill in terms of aboriginal rights. These experts concluded that
those problems cannot be fixed later by regulation. There must
be some form of statutory amendment.
Mary Ellen Turpel-Lafond made it very clear that the fiduciary
duty of the federal Crown attaches to each stage of the legislative
process, including consideration of this bill by the Senate.
Furthermore, this constitutionally entrenched duty requires
Parliament to discuss and consider options for ensuring the least
restrictive intrusion on aboriginal and treaty rights.
Honourable senators, the expert testimony and the testimony
of the aboriginal peoples clearly points out the need for some
change to this bill to ensure that it respects the Constitution of
Canada. It is also clear that the federal government's duty to
consult fully with aboriginal peoples has been carried out in a
less than adequate fashion. I would point out that the consultation
process had focused on regulation-making power rather than on
the bill itself, and even that process is still not complete. In
addition, the federal government has failed to use the
consultation mechanisms established under the various land
claims agreements for this purpose.
In summary, honourable senators, the government has been
informed that there will be many instances of conflict in relation
to constitutionally protected rights if this bill is adopted as it now
stands. Therefore, each of us as senators have a responsibility to
ensure the fulfilment of Parliament's fiduciary and constitutional
obligations.
We should also consider that several aboriginal peoples have
spent many years, and much money in negotiating complex
agreements that spell out in great detail their hunting rights. We
must remember that these rights are essential to the preservation
of aboriginal cultures. On many occasions, the courts have
confirmed that these hunting rights include a right to own and
possess firearms. This is spelled out in the various land claims
agreements. As Mr. Binnie pointed out to the committee, this bill
would make those constitutionally protected rights subject to the
discretion of firearms officer.
Why should aboriginal peoples have to waste their money, and
taxpayers' money, in litigating to have parts of this bill struck
down by the courts when their rights have already been
recognized in constitutionally protected agreements? These
agreements are intended to provide legal certainty. They are
intended to discourage litigation by requiring the government by
law to respect aboriginal and treaty rights. These agreements are
entrenched in the Constitution to prevent exactly this type of
situation - legislation that ignores aboriginal and treaty rights
except to challenge aboriginal people to litigate.

November 22, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

In terms of practical impacts, this bill will interfere on a daily
basis with the traditions and practices of aboriginal peoples. For
example, the simple task of a non-hunter collecting firearms after
a hunting expedition to place in storage will require possession of
a licence and a registration certificate for each gun. Likewise, the
need to lend a firearm to women and children left in the camp to
protect themselves from animal predators will become a
bureaucratic nightmare under this bill. The storage and
transportation regulations are not only not suitable to the North,
they are unsafe in an environment where animal predators are a
fact of life.
Honourable senators, the registration requirements of the bill
will mean that those people in the North with the greatest need
for a gun and the least access to govemment services will wait
the longest to obtain the necessary permission; permission that
they should not need to seek because their way of life is
constitutionally protected.
These are just a few examples of how this bill will harm
aboriginal peoples and how it will infringe upon their rights. This
bill will force aboriginal peoples to either forgo their rights or
fight again in the courts to have those rights recognized. This is
not fair; this is not equitable; this is not constitutional. We must
adopt the very modest amendment proposed by the Senate
committee. In doing so, we will be giving the government
another chance to get it right, and to uphold the honour of the
Crown.
That is why, honourable senators, I stand today to urge the
adoption of the aboriginal amendments. I do recognize the
importance of the requirement for gun control, but not at the
expense of aboriginal peoples.
The Hon. the Speaker: Senator Watt, I regret to interrupt you,
but your ten minutes are up.
0

(1630)

Senator Graham: Honourable senators, I very much regret
interrupting Senator DeWare, but we did allow Senator Atkins to
go over the allotted ten minutes. If Senator Watt does not require
more than two or three minutes then, with unanimous agreement,
we could allow him to continue.
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Senator Watt: Honourable senators, just to conclude my
remarks, I should like to touch on the fact that firearms, at times,
are used for wrongful purposes. I, too, sympathize with the
families of those who have been victimized by the misuse of
firearms.
I would ask all honourable senators to give serious
consideration to what we said in committee and in this house. I
should like to express my appreciation to those who have spoken
on behalf of our people. Please continue to do so!

This is probably the first time that. day in and day out, I have
heard speeches about aboriginal people being made by everyone
in the house. Perhaps one day our French and English people
with receive the same attention. There are many similarities
between our French society and our aboriginal society. At times,
we are misinterpreted as wanting to be different, or wanting to
have more than anyone else. That is really not the case. We must
face the fact that we are slightly different in some ways because
of our way of life.
Hon. Mabel M. DeWare: Honourable senators, I rise today to
speak on the importance of the vote which will occur later today
on Bill C-68. I must confess one thing has been puzzling me
today, and that is: Why is the govemment leading the public to
believe that these amendments cannot be sent back to the other
place without ultimately killing this bill? That is not true. We saw
an editorial in The Globe and Mail today, and we have seen other
news articles to that end. By whom is this idea being fostered?
We are not trying to kill this bill. Several weeks ago we agreed
on a date in this house by which we would vote on this bill. We
did this in order to allow the govemment ample time to deal with
any potential amendments.
If the govemment did not feel that was a sufficient amount of
time, it should have been made known then. We did appreciate
the fact that we had an extra week or two in which our members
could travel. We feel that is probably one of the most important
things that has happened in all of our deliberations on this bill.
I am sure you will agree that the government has more than
ample time to pass this bill, even with amendments. If this bill
does not become law, it is not our fault.
Many of us want to see parts of this bill amended. However,
we compromised partly because we want this bill passed by the
Christmas break. How then can anyone really say or believe that
we are trying to kill this bill? The amendments which were
chosen are fair; they represent the concems of many witnesses
who appeared before our committee. That, honourable senators,
is the role of the Senate.
Some of my honourable colleagues have already explained the
thinking behind the amendments proposed by the Conservative
members. However, I would like to focus on a section of the bill
which has not been amended. I refer especially to the gun
registration section. Will registration really work, or are we just
entering into another bureaucratic nightmare?
The current firearms registration process, which has been in
effect for over 60 years, is woefully ineffective. Firearms are
often inaccurately described. Assembly numbers are recorded as
serial numbers. Records are lost. Cheap copies of guns are
registered under well-known brands they resemble. Furthermore,
firearm owners move or die, and often, as is human nature, there
are time lapses before address changes are reported to the proper
authorities, if they are ever reported.

These are just a few of
the costly system which
This does not include
law-abiding citizens, who
their firearms.

the problems which will also occur in
the government seeks to implement.
the numerous people. including
will just downright refuse to register

Despite the concerns of some, including myself, the committee
chose not to amend this section on registration.
To al the women's groups who fought against amendments to
this section, I should like to say that I, too, want to see an end to
violence against women. My opposition to registration does not
contradict this position.
I was shocked and horrified, as we ail were in the committee,
when a group of witnesses revealed that a woman will go back to
her abusive partner, on average, 30 times. Money would be better
spent to ensure that these women do not have to return home to
abusive partners, rather than on a registration system which
might lead to confiscation of a firearm but which does nothing to
address the underlying causes of abuse.
Every senator who has spoken against this bill has confirmed
that he or she would support the bill if there was any indication
or proof that registration reduces violence against women or
violence in the home, or that it reduces homicides and suicides.
Yet, honourable senators, we did not seek to amend the
registration clause. We pray il provides the solutions Canadians
are hoping for.
Honourable senators, I hope we can come together today to
adopt these amendîments, in order to give the government
sufficient time for speedy passage of the improvements to
Bill C-68.
Hon. P. Michael Pitfield: Honourable senators, this is a very
important bill. It is, unfortunately, seriously flawed. I am deeply
concerned about its insensitivity to farmers and outdoorsmen
and, particularly, to the people of the North.
The recognition of the needs that flow from the interaction of
great space and small numbers is the particular duty of Canadian
federalism, and especially of its federal ministers. This bill does
not meet that test: something poignant, indeed, in the
circumstances of these days, in times immediately following yet
another referendum springing from somewhat similar issues of
insensitivity. Perhaps Ottawa is as arrogant as many people seem
to think it is. Maybe we should examine our consciences.
The Attorney General of Canada and Minister of Justice is no
ordinary minister when it comes to these issues of equity and the
duties of political leaders in a federal structure. He has a unique
position. I believe he should have found a compromise in this
case. He has not. I find that most regrettable. I have never met
the honourable gentlemen, -but ail reports are that he is an

1Senatoi

DeWiare

1

extraordinarily intelligent man. We need such people in Canada
desperately. but we must also preserve the capacity to
compromise.
In that light, I simply do not understand why we must choose
between a well-intentioned, largely useful, sincerely compiled
piece of legislation on the one hand and, on the other, the
legitimate interests of a significant group of our fellow citizens
whose interests the bill certainly ignores, even encumbers.

To my mind, this bill shows that the Liberal Party still has to
learn the lesson of the reversai it suffered in the 1980s. For those
of us who think of themselves certainly as philosophical Liberals,
this is very bad news. When liberalism came under attack, many,
if not most, of its adherents seemed to think it was their
principles that had somehow lost the support of the people. In
fact, it seems to me that it was the way those principles were
being asserted in a modern, complex society that people found
objectionable. People simply rebelled against the monstrous
mechanisms of policy and process that were being used by
governments. even, and I might say especially, so-called
conservative governments, to realize those principles. Again, il
was not the principles of liberalism but the mechanisms of their
realization that were unacceptable.
A decade later we now have a prime example of this same
phenomenon. It seems to me that those concerned have not yet
learned, and we ordinary back-benchers are pressed to try to sort
the situation out.
This is not an easy question. I have thought it through as best
I can. On the one hand, there are the undisputed benefits of the
bill. On the other hand, there is its unbelievable. naive faith in
machinery, its lack of a certain degree of ordinary sense, its blind
reliance on bureaucratic process.
Perhaps I am unduly influenced by the scene last night when
our colleagues denied, as I sec it, the elected government the
right to manage the government's business. Vote down the
electoral boundaries, as some of us wanted to do, but do not
refuse us the right to bring it out of committee so we cannot vote
at ail.
I might not make this judgment normally. However, it seems to
me the message of these circumstances today is that if we are to
have a bill at aIl in the current circumstances of divided power in
this house, then we can only have a flawed one. I regret that. It is
the role of the Senate to try to avoid that kind of situation. We are
a chamber of sober second reflection.
The minister has not made our role easy. However we have
not made it easy for ourselves, either. I have reluctantly
concluded that, in this instance, I will support the government's
right to legislate.

November 22. 1995

November 22. 1995

SENATE DEBATES

SENATE DEBATES

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators. looking at the
dlock. 1 see that it is 4:45. It was agreed earlier this afiernoon that
at this time we would hear from the Honourable Senator
Lynch-Staunton for 15 minutes, followed by the Honourable
Senator Fairbairn.
Hon. John Lynch-Staunton (Leader of the Opposition):
Honourable senators, 1 arn sure that nothing 1 will say on the bill
itself will change any minds, as ail minds are obviously pretty
welI made up by now. The debate has been eloquent, convincing
and, certainly for the Most part, extraordinarily well thought out.
However, I want to clarify the position of this caucus on its
approach to the bill. First. I want to say that the Progressive
Conservative Party, as represented by this caucus, unanimousiy
has neyer opposed gun control. As a matter of fact, it was the
Mulroney government, with Kim Campbell as Minister of Justice
wbich, in 1991, introduced and legislated, if not the tougbest gun
control Iaw in the world, certainly one of tbe toughest gun
control laws in the world. Yet Canadians are unaware of that.
Only this morning Senator Meighen was telling us about a highly
educated, well-informed friend of bis wbo asked him last night
while talking about Bill C-68, "Wby are you delaying it? Anyone
can walk into a shop and buy a gun, legally." That is the sort of
ignorance about gun control that there is in this country, whicb,
unfortunately, is leading people to wrong conclusions about the
laws that we have, and how strict tbey are.
Let me tell honourable senators about how they can acquire a
gun in Quebec today under the law which we passed in 1991. If
you want to buy any kind of a gun, for whatever legal purpose target shooting, let us say - did you know that you have to take
two safety courses, be investigated by the police on tbree
separate occasions and produce 12 letters of reference? That is
just part of the process which can take up to one year. There is no
other country in the world which imposes sucb conditions on
those who want to legally acquire firearms. This is our doing, but
it bas had a negative effeet. It bas led to, a drop in the issuance of
firearms acquisition certificates and, as a resuit, an increase in
the smuggling of illegal guns and the trade in them.
One must be careful in designing legisiation that becomes s0
strict and so onerous that some people just cannot cope with it,
and will use other means to attain tbe samne ends.
It is this party that allows us to look at Bill C-68 today. Had
there been no Bill C-17, there would be no Bill C-68 today. It is
because of the pioneering work of Brian Mulroney, Kim
Campbell and tbe Conservative caucus that we can at least
discuss Bill C-68 today.
What disturbs many of us is that the principles on which
Bill C-17 is based have not been honoured. When Ms Campbell
introduced Bill C-I17, she said that the legislation "was to provide
better protection for al] Canadians against firearms violence,
while avoiding undue or unnecessary interference in the

2339
2339

activities of Canadians who use guns legally, responsihly and
safely." Russell MacLellan, who was then the Liberal critie. said:
Tbe objective of the legisiation is to control access to
firearms and ammunition in Canada and not to place
excessive or undue restrictions on responsible gun owners. I
think tbat bas been achieved.
Those were tbe comments in 1991 of tbe two main parties in the
House of Commons on our legisiation.
Those principles and those objectives bave been abandoned
witb Bill C-68. What the government should have done is
introduce two bis, one on gun control exclusively, increasing
the penalties and the sanctions for those wbo trade and bring in
arms which are illegal or not acceptable. There would have been
hardly any debate on it, except some of us may bave thougbt that
the sanctions were not severe enougb. as sucb a bill would have
gone after the criminal element.
Another bill on registration sbould bave been introduced, a law
whicb affects law-abiding citizens. Criminals do not register their
firearms, nor do they ask for firearms acquisition certificates.
They rhumb their noses at Bill C-I17, just as they wiIl thumb tbeir
noses at Bill C-68. If Bill C-68 is passed. aIl Canadians will be
deemed as suspect because they will be mixed with the criminal
element. This is why so many law-abiding citizens are concerned
and upset, because they are being treated as suspects right off tbe
bat-, being targeted by a law which aims at both the criminal
element and themselves.
00(650>

Look at the amendments. I will not discuss the details because
they bave been extremely well analyzed by those who are
supporting them. These amendments in no way affect tbe gun
control feature of tbe bill. Tbey do not affect in any way the
registration feature of the bill. They are but a modest response to
complaints beard, not just in one part of the country but across
the country These complaints and concerns were expressed not
from a well-financed gun lobby about which I have heard 50
much - 1 can tell you bonestly I have neyer met nor spoken with
such a group - but rather from concerned, law-abiding citizens.
including their elected representatives, in four provinces and two
territories.
I am sure that these amendments are a great disappointment to
those citizens. These amendments represent a minimum response
but, to many of tbem, tbey are below the minimum. Tbey
expected more from us, particularly after so many of our
colleagues went out across the country and listened to
responsible, law-abiding citizens who, as one example, did not
want their gun collections confiscated, whicb Bill C-68 allows.
As another example, the Canadian Olympie shooting team bas
told us that. bad this bill been in effeet at the time of the
Commonwealth Games. there would have been no shooting
competition.

Hon. Raymond J. Perrault: That is totally inaccurate. I
confirmed it today: completely inaccurate.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: The regulations would allow the
minister to ban the guns used in international competition.
Senator Perrault: Absolutely incorrect. You are spreading
another falsehood. May I read the section to you?

Senator Lynch-Staunton: No.
Senator Perrault: It is in the bill, if you would read it instead
of reading propaganda.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: I am not reading propaganda; I am
reading the testimony of the Canadian Olympie shooting team.
Senator Perrault: It is incorrect. I will send you the citation.
It may help you.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: Please do. Thank you.
What you cannot deny is that a gun which is purchased legally
and then put on the restricted list, which means it has to be
registered and then put on the prohibited list, which means it has
to be confiscated, can be expropriated without compensation.
That has already been done, and it will continue with this bill.
Senator Stratton gave us examples yesterday.
The most troubling feature of this bill is that it raises
expectations which will not be met. Although this too may be
challenged, let me read you an analysis of the bill by Dr. Taylor
Buckner of Concordia University, an associate professor of
Sociology:
Bill C-68, presently before the Senate. will have little or
no effect on homicides, suicides or accidents. Its proponents
have not offered a single piece of evidence or research that
it will reduce homicides, suicides or accidents, because
there is no such evidence or research. It may well allow for
an increase in violent crime as police efforts and funds are
diverted into bureaucracy. It will certainly increase the
overall crime rate, as almost every gun owner in Canada
will inadvertently be in violation of one or another of its
confusing provisions.
Honourable senators. the Minister of Justice is falsely claiming
that if this bill goes to him tonight with amendments, there is a
strong possibility that the House of Commons cannot deal with
it. Is he so ignorant of the procedure over there that he does not
know that the rules of the house favour the majority, and that any
bill can get through in the time that the majority wishes, with or
without the cooperation of the opposition?
Is the legislative agenda there so heavy that time cannot be
made for this bill? Do I hear them discussing a bill which will

abolish the GST? There is nothing of immediate importance
going on over there. Is this government in a minority position?
There is nothing to stop them from getting this bill tomorrow,
amending it. and retuming it to us next week. in plenty of time
for the Christmas recess.
The minister is really saying that he does not want to see this
bill back in the House of Commons. He fears another debate. He
fears revealing again the deep splits in his own caucus, the deep
opposition which will be expressed to him publicly and privately
that Canadians by the hundreds of thousands object to being
treated as suspected criminals by the policies underlying this bill.
The minister will not be able to show that he has properly
consulted aboriginals as required by the Constitution and by
treaties and agreements. Consultation does not mean sending 600
letters. The minister will not be able to show that he has
consulted adequately with four provinces and two territories.
Speak to the ministers and attorneys general out there and ask
them about the consultation. It was information. It was a
monologue. These are the provinces which are responsible for
the application of the Criminal Code. Provincial-federal relations
at al] times are tense, difficult, awkward and frustrating, and
never more so than since the referendum. Yet, this government
does not seem to accept that the days of "Daddy knows best" are
over.
We are in a period where we should have been long ago, a
period of consultation, of open discussion, even if it takes longer
than one might want to come to agreements. We need an end to
destructive letters from the Minister of Health demanding that
the provinces follow the rules or be cut from the paylist; or
destructive edicts back and forth from the Minister of Human
Resources saying, "Do it my way, or no way."
The provinces have requested that only the registration of long
arms be delayed so the system can be assessed. and then the
provinces could do a better job in applying it. The rest of the bill
would apply to all of the provinces.
The aboriginal people are asking only for consultation. They
are saying, "We have a way of life here which is different from
yours in Ottawa, Toronto and Montreal. We have a way of life
which is essential to us. To us, a rifle is a tool. It is an essential,
defensive weapon. We are law-abiding citizens. We cannot join
your culture, but we do not want to be outside the mainstream.
You have pushed us out over the years. You have taken our lands.
You have put us on reservations. You have ignored our
education. You have tried to abolish our culture. Now you are
trying to make some reparations; that goes nowhere without
respect. That is what consultation is - respect."
Yet. the Minister of Justice says to aboriginals, to provinces
and to every Canadian citizen, I do not care what you say; you
will do it my way."

November 22, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

The minister came, as someone mentioned earlier, to our
committee. Even before he entered the room, he said, I do not
care what amendments they have. I will not change one word of
this bill."
That is not how the Parliament of Canada works.
Some Hon. Senators: Oh! Oh!
Senator Lynch-Staunton: There are those here who heard it.
Senator Thériault: That is not what he said.
0

(1700)

Senator Lynch-Staunton: The minister's thoughts were well
expressed. I will end on that note. He said, when he became
justice minister, "I came to Ottawa with the firm belief that the
only people in this country who should have guns are police
officers and soldiers."
It is with that kind of mindset that Bill C-68 has been
conceived. The most dreadful part is that Bill C-68 does not meet
his goals. He has yet to restrict weapons, as is his intention, to
police officers and soldiers. What restrictions will he conceive of
next?
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, I am pleased to be able to participate in this
debate. It is an important debate. I think the contributions that
have been made over the past several hours and days have
indicated, once again, that when there is an issue of great
national importance and emotion, the Senate responds to that
issue with eloquence and with great care.
This is an important issue, honourable senators. For the last
several years, one of the subjects for which concern has risen
steadily among Canadians is that of safety and security - safety
in terms of health; security in terms of economics - in private
homes and on public streets; in large cities and sprawling urban
areas; and in rural towns, villages, and remote communities in
the north and south of this country.
This concern, honourable senators, touches every part of our
society. It has deep roots in poverty, rapid change, lost
opportunities, unemployment, drugs, illiteracy, shifting social
values and changing family structures, and ail of the
manifestations that these combinations produce in terms of
anxiety, anger, desperation, crime and violence. It is much more
than just statistics, polls, media headlines and sensational trials; it
is a public attitude of anxiety which is pushing institutions at ail
levels to take action, to do something, whether it be through
governments, schools, churches, protective services, or the
criminal justice system itself.
Ail of our institutions, honourable senators, are challenged
with these demands, and they are challenged in the troubling
context of diminished resources ail across this land. There are no
quick fixes for the problems that have taken root and grown, in

2341

ironic and even tragic parallel with years past of growth and
prosperity in Canada.
While longer terrn efforts to reach the causes must accelerate,
right now, attention has focused on strengthening means for
protection through the law, through education and through trying
to regulate and manage more effectively the tools which, if
misused, result in crime, violence and death.
As aIl of us know, the issue of gun control has become a
central feature of this process. It is a controversial issue which
defies unanimity, but one on which, as honourable friends
opposite have noticed, successive governments have sought and
achieved varying degrees of consensus. For the past two years,
the current government has tried to find a formula which bridges
both protection and fairness. Already, there has been a great deal
of consultation - real consultation - debate and compromise.
Bill C-68 is aimed at striking a balance between the legitimate
use of firearms by law-abiding citizens of this country whether they be aboriginal peoples, farmers, ranchers, people
who use guns for hunting and recreational purposes, people who
are involved in sports competition or who are interested in
collecting and preserving guns - and the need to promote public
safety and to curtail criminal activity.
There has been a great deal of discussion and debate in the
House of Commons, and extensive testimony in its Justice
Committee. That led, not to closing the door but to countless
amendments and compromises to the original legislation. Here in
the Senate, many more witnesses were heard. Senators held
meetings across the country, some most recently in days and
weeks, but others also throughout the summer, in the areas that
they represent. We are now engaged in what may or may not be
the final debate on this legislation.
As with ahl measures designed to strike that balance between
competing interests, this legislation has its critics. They are
vocal, and they have often been the most vocal in this debate. It
is important to remember, however, that these proposals also
have a long list of supporters in every part of this country. Often,
their voices are not loud and easily heard. They may be members
of social services, protective services, or police forces. They may
be women and men in fear and distress wherever they live in
Canada - urban or rural. They may be victims themselves; they
may be families of victims who have been killed or wounded.
I cannot speak today without remembering that it was almost
at this time of year in 1989 that 14 families had their daughters
killed in a tragic event which took place at l'Ecole polytechnique
in Montreal. Some of those families are here with us today. We
will not forget that event as a symbol of the other side of the coin
in this legislation.
Sometimes, honourable senators, only the strongest come
forward to speak. However, the trends of public surveys have
shown consistently that a majority of Canadians do support gun
control, as my honourable friend the Leader of the Opposition
has said: they do support gun control measures, and, honourable
senators, they also support this legislation.

There is no question that the levels of'support vary in different
regions of this country. That has been expressed tèrcefully and
weIl in this debate. 1. too. have heard those variations firsthand
for months in my own province of Alberta, particularly in the
southwcst corner where 1 live. That is predominantly a rural area.
Honourable senators, the views that 1 have heard are strong and
forcefully expressed. but thcy are also mixed. They are not
monolithie.
The thing that strikes me, when we are engaged in debate and
argument on issues such as this, is that we very often
communicate in extremes such as: "This bill will do nothing to
solve our crime problems." Or. as Senator Lawson said carlier.
when he suggested that other people were speaking in extremes:
"The day after this legisiation is passed. there will be no
shooting." That is an extreme as weII. Obviously, we concede
that.
Other extremes are: "The registration systcm will not work at
ail". "The Iaw will flot work"; "The money budgeted, no matter
what it is, will not be enough": "The govemnment is really out to
confiscate firearms from individuals"; "The muscums
automatically wiIl be chargcd fées", and "There will neyer be
consultation sufficient enough or sensitive enougb for the needs
of aboriginals and nortbemners."
Honourable senators, ail of those comments arc extremes. We
have heard these messages, not just in recent days but for months
and for ycars.
171)>
* (

I do flot helieve that this bill is buiît on extremes but. rather. it
ds seek consensus and compromise on what is clearly a very
difficuli issue for Canadians and for each individual senator in
this house. We know that our political institutions and those who
serve in themn are vicwed with scepticism and even distrust by
many Canadians. Sometimes that occurs because we take it for
granted that our messages are beard beyond Parliament Hill and
that we are clever enough to, make them casily understood.
Sadly, wbile communication sbould be a potitical strength, ail
too often we do a very poor job, both of listening and explaining.
In the case of this bill, and the emotion and the controversy
whicb surrounds it. the messages sometimes are confused. and
they are contradictory.
I would suggest. bonourable senators, that a great deal of effort
has gone into the groundwork and the preparation of systems
proposed in this legislation. This has flot been a carcless exercise
and it will flot be a tbougbtless implementation.
1 was flot part of the committec which studied the bill.
although 1 followed its work with very keen interest because it
reminded me a great deal of Bill C-17, of which 1 was the
sponsor when our party was in opposition back in 1991I. The
issues were similar; the testimony was similar; the frustration and
the controversy were similar: and there was a great desire at that

1Senatoî

1-aibaini 1

time to propose amendments to the bill to reflect some of the
tcstimony which we had heard.
My honourable friend opposite is absolutely right: It was a
good bill, and it was notjust a good bill because it came t'rom the
former governmcnt; it was also a good bill because senators on
both sides ot this bouse worked strongly together to make it SO
and to support it. In the end, the committee chose to report the
bill witbout amendment but witb very strong recommendations
to then justice minister, Kim Campbell. We did flot sec that bill
as the final word on gun control but. Liberals and Conservative
together. we put forward recommendations. and some of tbem.
honourable senators. involved safety, training, and registration.
1 believe that wc sbould give the bill before us today a chance
to prove itsclf to Canadians. We should give this bill a chance to
work. Let us cooperate - not condemn but cooperate - with the
justice department to inform our citizens, to case the
implementation proccss. and to demonstrate that Canadians and
their goverfiments have the ability, the crcativity and the
determination to make our laws work properly. Let there
continue to be thc hroadest consultation witb our ahorigini
people SO that the law will be implementcd in a way that respects
the realities of their way of fle and their special culture.
The Minister of' Justice again today assured me that cvery
effort will be made to ensure that section 35 of the Constitution
will be rcspected in terms of implementation of this legislation.
Let us build. bonourable senators. on the goodwill and the
conscicntious practicality witb whicb most gun owncrs approach
thcir work. their hobby. their sport, and most particularly the
means of' sustaining themselves and thcir families. Let us hclp to
provide the climate in wbicb this bill can work.
Honourable senators. this bas been a very important, a vcry
provocative. and a very moving debate. Last nigbt. Senator
Doyle observcd:
We are Canadians ail. witb goals to share and bopes to
achieve.
I believe. bonourable senators. that tbis legislation takes us a
step dloser to achicving our common goals and bopes: namcly,
the building of a culture and a socicty wbere the safcty and
security of aIl Canadians is cnbanccd. It is for this reason.
colleagues. that 1 sincerely hope we can pass this legislation
today in this Senate. and thus takc our responsibility seriously
because. speculate as you will. we do not know what will happen
to Bill C-68 tomorrow, and 1 would sinccrely hope we can work
together to pass it today.

The Hon. the Speaker: 1 wisb to tbank bonourable senators
for staying strictly witbin their time limits. It now bcing five
fiftccn o'clock. pursuant to the order of the Senate and to
rule 67(3) 1 order the beils to be rung for no more than
15 minutes.
Please cal in the senators.

November 22, 1995

November22,
1995SENATE
DEBATES

2343
24

YEAS
THE HONOURABLE SENATORS
MOTION IN AMENDMENT 0F SENATOR SPARROW
NEGATIVED ON DIVISION

On the Order:
On the motion in amendment of the Honourable Senator
Sparrow, seconded by the Honourable Senator Lawson:
That the report be not now adopted but that it be amended
(a) by adding, on the first page, immediately before
amendment number 1, the following:
"1. Page 15, clause 15. 1: add. after line 4, on page 15, the
following new Clause:
"15.1. (1) A registration certificate is not required for
any purpose under this Act or any other enactment for a
firearmn that is reasonable for use in Canada for hunting or
sporting purposes.
(2) Notwithstanding subsection (1), a registration
certificate may be issued for a firearm that is reasonable
for use in Canada for hunting or sporting purposes.
(3) For the purposes of this section, a firearmn shahl be
deemed to be reasonable for use in Canada for hunting or
sporting purposes if
(a) it is a rifle or shotgun designed or intended to be
used for hunting or sporting purposes-, and
(b) it is not a firearmn described in
(i) paragraph (b) or (c) of the definition of
"1prohibited firearm" in section 84 of the Criminal
Code, or
(ii) paragraph (b) or (c) of the definition of
"Irestricted firearm" in section 84 of the Criminal
Code.
(4) Notwithstanding any other provision, no person who
possesses a firearmn that is reasonable for use in Canada for
hunting or sporting purposes commits an offence under
this Act or any other enactment by reason only that the
person is not the holder of a registration certificate for the
firearm.""; and
(b) by renumbering the subsequent amendiments accordingly.
Motion in amendment of Senator Sparrow. negatived on the
lèllowing division:

Lawson
Lucier
Lynch-Staunton
MacDonald (Halifax)
Meighen
Murray
Oliver
Ottenheimer
Phillips
Roberge
Robertson
Rossiter
Simard
Sparrow
St. Germain
Stratton
Sylvain
Tkachuk
Twinn
Watt--4 1.

Adams
Atkins
Balfour
Bemrtson
Buchanan
Cochrane
Comeau
Cools
DeWare
Di Nino
Doody
Doyle
Eyton
Forrestaîl
Ghitter
Grimard
Gustafson
Kelleher
Kelly
Keon
Kinsella

NAYS
THE HONOURABLE SENATORS
Anderson
Andreychuk
Angus
Austin
Bacon
Beaudoin
Bolduc
Bonnell
Rosa
Bryden
Carney
Carstairs
Cohen
Corbin
Davey
De Bané
Fairbairn
Gauthier
Gigantès
Grafstein
Graham
Haidasz
Hays
Hébert
Hervieux-Payette
Johnson
Kenny
Kirby
Kolber

Lavoie-Roux
LeBreton
Lewis
Losier-Cool
MacEachen
Marchand
Milne
Nolin
Oison
Pearson
Perrault
Petten
Pitfield
Poulin
Prud'homme
Riel
Rivest
Rizzuto
Robichaud
Rompkey
Roux
Spivak
Stanbury
Stewart
Stollery
Thériault
Thompson
Wood-57.

NAYS
THE HONOURABLE SENATORS

ABSTENTIONS
THE HONOURABLE SENATORS
Jessiman-l.

CONSIDERATION 0F REPORT 0F COMMITEEMOTION NEGATIVEO ON DIVISION

The Hon. the Speaker: It was moved by the Honourable
Senator Beaudoin, seconded by the Honourable Senator Grimard,
that this report be adopted.

Motion negatived on the following division:
YEAS
THE HONOURABLE SENATORS
Adams
Andreychuk
Angus
Atkins
Balfour
Bemntson
Buchanan
Camney
Cochrane
Comeau
Cools
DeWare
Di Nino
Doody
Doyle
Eyton
Forrestall
(ihitter
Grimard
Gustafson
Jessiman
Kelleher
Kelly

Keon
Kinsella
Lawson
LeBreton
Lynch-Staunton
MacDonald (Halifax)
Meighen
Murray
Nolin
Oliver
Ottenheimer
Phillips
Roberge
Robertson
Rossiter
Simard
Sparrow
St. Germain
Stratton
Sylvain
Tkachuk
Twinn
Watt-46.

Anderson
Austin
Bacon
Beaudoin
Bolduc
Bonneil
Bosa
Bryden
Carstairs
Cohen
Corbin
Davey
De Bané
Fairbaîrn
Gauthier
Gigantès
Grafstein
Graham
Haidasz
Hays
Hébert
Hervieux-Payette
John son
Kenny
Kirby
Kolber
Lavo je-Roux

Lewis
Losier-Cool
Lucier
MacEachen
Marchand
Milne
Oison
Pearson
Perrault
Petten
Pittield
Pou lin
Prud'homme
Riel
Rivest
Rizzuto
Robichaud
Rompkey
Roux
Spivak
Stanbury
Stewart
Stollery
Thériault
Thompson
Wood-53.

ABSTENTIONS
THE HONOURABLE SENATORS
Nil

THIRD READING

The Hon. the Speaker: It is moved by the Honourable
Senator Carstairs. seconded by the Honourahie Senator Graham.
that the bill be read the third time now. Is it your pleasure,
honourable senators, to adopt the motion'?

November22.
1995SENATE
DEBATES

November 22, 1995

Motion agreed to and bill read third time and passed on the
foliowing division:
YEAS
THE HONOURABLE SENATORS
Anderson
Angus
Austin
Bacon
Beaudoin
Bolduc
Bonneil
Bosa
Bryden
Carstairs
Cohen
Corbin
Davey
De Bané
Doody
Fairbaimn
Gauthier
Gigantès
Grafstein
Graham
Grimard
Haidasz
Hays
Hébert
Hervieux-Payette
Johnson
Kelly
Kenny
Keon
Kirby
Koiber
Lavoie-Roux

LeBreton
Lewis
Losier-Cool
MacDonald (Halifax)
MacEachen
Marchand
Meighen
Milme
Murray
Nolin
Oison
Uttenheimer
Pearson
Perrault
Petten
Pitfield
Poulin
Prud'homme
Riel
Rivest
Rizzuto
Robichaud
Rompkey
Roux
Spivak
Stanbury
Stewart
Stoliery
Sylvain
Thériauit
Thompson
Wood-64.

NAYS
THE HONOURABLE SENATORS
Atkins
Bal four
Bemntson
Buchanan
Carney
Cochrane
Comeau
DeWare
Di Nino
Doyle
Forrestai I
Ghitter
Gustafson
Kelleher

Kinsella
Lawson
Lucier
Oliver
Phillips
Roberge
Robertson
Rossiter
Simard
Sparrow
St. Germain
Stratton
Tkachuk
Twinn-28.

24
2345

ABSTENTIONS
THE HONOURABLE SENATORS
Jessiman
Lynch-Staunton
Watt-7.

Adams
Andreychuk
Cools
Eyton

TRANSPORT
REPORT 0F THE AD HOC PARLIAMENTARY COMMITTEE
ON LIGHTSTATIONS-DEBATE ADJOURNED

Leave having been gîven to proceed to Inquiry No. 59:
Hon. Eric Arthur Berntson (Deputy Leader of the
Opposition), on behaif of Senator Carney, rose pursuant to
notice of June 21, 1995:
That she will cali the attention of the Senate to the report
of the Ad Hoc Parliamentary Committee on Lightstations.
He said: Honourable senators, on behaif of Senator Camney,
1 wilI speak two words and then adjourn the debate on Inquiry
No. 59, dealing with the parliamentary committee on
lightstations. The reason for the adjoumnment is that we simpiy
have not had time to get to that item on our agenda, with ail the
other things we have had on our plate. Senator Camney wouid iike
to debate this item at a later date.
On motion of Senator Bernston, for Senator Carney, debate
adjourned.

BUSINESS 0F THE SENATE
Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourabie senators, if there is agreement, 1
move that ail remaining orders, reports, motions and inquiries
stand.
Motion agreed to.
The Senate aqlourned until tomorrow at 2 p.m.

TUE SENATE
Thursday, November 23, 1995
The Senate met at 2:00 p.m., the Speaker in the Chair

way of life. Following those speeches. 64 senators voted for
Bill C-68.

Prayers.
VISITORS IN GALLERY
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, 1 draw your
attention to distinguished visitors in our Speaker's Gallery. 1 refer
to the Honourable Speaker of the Legislative Assembly
of Manitoba, Speaker Louise M. Dacquay. She is accompanied
by the Clerk of the Legisiative Assembly of' Manitoba,
Mr. Binks Remnant.

SENATORS'STATEMENTS
GUN CONTROL LEGISLATION

Over the past several months, we heard from approximately
160 witnesses, and we heard consistently that the aboriginal
peoples wiIl have to go to court if Bill C-68 is passed. I believe
that that is the only way we wihl win our rights back. and 1
believe that we will be in court some time after Christmas.
I have been serving on the Standing Senate Committee on
Aboriginal Peoples for the last two years. and I have always
thought that we were doing a good job. However. after last night.
I realized that the Senate is not concemned about aboriginal rights.
Effective immediately. I tender to my whip my resignation as a
member of the Standing Senate Committee on Aboriginal
Peoples.
[Translation]j

CONSEQUENCES FOR ABORIGINAL. COMMUNITIES

Hon. A. Raynell Andreychuk: Honourable senators,
yesterday 1 abstained from the final vote on Bill C-68. I did s0
because 1 respect the Constitution and because the bill remained
unchanged. Therefore. abstention was my only method of
registening my continued concernis.
The hill, contrary to popular opinion, belief and the
govemnment hype. does not get tough on crime immediately, but
it does get tough on lawful citiLens. If the bill were really tough
on crime. I might have had some reason and logic for putting
aside my responsibilities to the aboriginal peoples in favour of its
passage. I might have been able to, put the interests of minorities
aside. However, the bill did not, in fact, deal with the issues of
crime and violence with which 1 feel we need to deal.
The Senate must now contemplate how committed it is to the
aboriginal community. How committed are we to minorities, one
of our three fundamental responsibilities? 0f what value is the
aboriginal community? Does the Standing Senate Committee on
Legal and Constitutional Affairs really deal only with legal and
constitutional issues?
Honourable senators, before we face such a situation again. we
should retlect on our respective roles and renew our commitment
to, finding workable compromises.
Hon. WilIie Adams: Honourable senators. I wish to explain
why I abstained hast night on the vote on Bill C-68.
During the debate on this bill, we heard many speeches
expressing concern f'or abornginal peophes. their rights and their

INTERNATIONAL ASSEMBLY 0F
FRENCH-SPEAKING PARLIAMENTARIANS
EXCH-ANGE OF INFORMATION AND SEMINAR
HELD IN PORT-AU-PRINCE. HAITI

Hon. Jean-Robert Gauthier: Honourable senators. iii
July 1994. the United Nations Organization authorized a military
intervention in Haiti to unseat a military junta which had forced
the elected president. Jean-Bertrand Aristide, into exile in the
USA.
I need not go into ail of the tumultuous events that have
occurred since the return of President Aristide and the arrivaI of
the UN peacekeepers in order to ensure a peaceful transition
from a military dietatorship to a democratic presidential regime
with a bicameral parliament elected by universal suffrage.
From November 16 through November 29. the Canadian
section ot the International Assembly of French-speaking
Parliamentarians, of which I bave the honour tu be thc hcad, hchd
seminars at Port-au-Prince to exchange views and information
with our parliamentary colleagues in Haiti focussed on issues
essential to Parliamentary action in a democracy. Within a few
days, I shaîl be tabling in the Senate a complete report on this
Canadian initiative. The seminar was organized as part of the
Canadian program of international cooperation and financed
through Canadian funding provided by the Cultural and
Technical Cooperation Agency which. as you know. is the key
organizer of francophone summits and the body which dispenses
assistance to development within la Francophonie.

November 23, 1995

SENATE DEBATES
SENATE DEBATES

November23, 1995

Other. similar semînars for newly-elected parliamentarians
were held in Africa recently, involving parliamentarians of a
number of tledgling dernocracies. 1 arn pleased to tell you also
that AIPLF Parliamentary Affairs Committee Chairman Senator
De Bané chaired most of these seminars. However, tbis is the
first lime we have had this kind of discussion and information
seminar on parliamentary action in a democracy in the Americas.
The delegation 1 chaired consisted of three federal members Raymond Bonin, Michel Daviault and Geoff Regan _- and three
members of provincial legisiatures - Solange Charest of the
Quebec National Assembly, Gilles Morin of the Ontario
Legisiative Assembly and Greg O'Donnell of the New
Brunswick Legislative Assembly.
The subjects discussed during the seminar were as follows: the
separation of powers, which is the foundation of any democratic
system-, the relationship between Parliament and the executive.
where Canadian parliamentarians stressed the concept of
ministerial accountabiIity; the role of the opposition in a
parliamentary system, a topic that raised many questions from
Haitian parliamentarians and fuelled a lengthy debate.
Canadian delegates pointed out that the presence of an
opposition that was welI organized and structured according to a
well-defined set of rules was fundamental to the effective
operation of a parliamentary democracy.
Other topics were the consideration of bills in the House and
in committee, administrative structures and services essential to
the effective functioning of Parliament, and the relationship
between elected representatives and their constituents.

2347
2347

a government motion to set up a joint committee on Canada's
national and royal anthems.
1 will forego the series of events that followed that historîc
date. As Senator IForrestall said yesterday, only two members of
that committee stili sit in Parliament. The other members of the
Senate and of the House of Commons have left us. Senator
Forrestail and I are the two MPs who were present at that historic
moment, and we are now in the Senate. We recommended to the
Parliament of Canada, that is, 10 the House of Commons and the
Senate that "0 Canada" be our national anthem.
Senator Forrestail and 1 fully agree. We both remember exactly
the same thing: il was agreed that a national anthem, like a flag,
like the monarchy, is a symbol that must be respected. Loyalty
must be total. absolute and voluntary.
Like him, I sincerely regret that, for reasons of base political
partisanship - and 1 underscore these words - and in the hope
of embarrassing the officiai opposition, that is the Bloc
Québécois in the House of Commons, the Reform Party
committee asked the House committee that looks after
procedural matters to kindly allow the members to sing "0
Canada" every Wednesday. This, in my opinion, makes a total
mockery of the symbol that should unite us.

Canadian delegates were impressed by their Haitian
colleagues' grasp of the subjects being discussed and by their
very active participation in the exchanges that took up two fuît
days. In fact, more than haîf of Haiti's two Houses of Parliament,
about 70 members and senators, took part in these discussions,
despite the fact that both Houses were sitting while we were
there. The Speakers of both Houses also took an active part in the
proceedings.

Honourable senators, I object to Ibis request. I have so
informed the people concemned. They ignored it. I heartily regret
that they politicized the national anthem for reasons of base
partisanship, in the hope, perhaps, of embarrassing the members
of a party by obliging them to sing, or not to sing, the national
anthem, whereas in Quebec like everywhere else in Canada.
spontaneously, at aIl major events where "O Canada" is sung,
even those who do not have my federalist faith politely rise and
sing, or at least rise. If we have to politicize our national anthem
starting today, I predict that people will politicize it. I state
publicly that the blame falîs squarely on the members of the
Reform Party who decided that, starting yesterday, they should
sing the national anthem.

We found that Haitian parliamentarians were well informed.
They are determined 10 work very hard to establish a strong
parliamentary democracy in their country, despite the serious
problems they are facing.

I must also congratulate - and do not take offenseMr. Plamondoîi of the Bloc Québécois on his intelligent attitude.
He said:

Honourable senators, if you have a chance to go 10 Haiti, I
would urge you 10 take advantage of this opportunity, as we did,
to meet and talk to parliamentarians.

We will not rise 10 the bait. We will be pole. We wîlI
nise. If we are present, we will rise out of respect for those
who wish to sing this fine song.

NATIONAL ANTHEM
OBLIGATION TO PERFORM BY MEMBERS 0F THE HOUSE 0F
COMMONS- CONSEQUENCES 0F DEMAND BY REFORM PARTY

Hon. Marcel Prud'homme: Honourable senators, on
January 1l. 1967 the Right Honourable Lester B. Pearson tabled

You see: "Ibis fine song."
Honourable senators, 1 would like to remind you of a point of
history. Perhaps I should congratulate the members of the
Reform Party for wanting to honour the Quebec City
Saint-Jean-Baptiste Society, because "O Canada" was not

written to be sung on JuIy 1, but was composed and written at the
request of the president of the Saint-Jean-Baptiste Society of
Quebec City in 1880. At that time, the president decided that it
would be nice in Canada to have a fine song. and made the
appropriate request of Félix Calixa Lavallée and Sir Basile
Routhier. whose great grandson was Mrs. Tremblay's husband.
1 must congratulate the Reform Party. Perhaps they wanted to
honour the Saint-Jean-Baptiste Society of Quebec City. Each
time they sing "0 Canada," 1 wiII thank them on behaif of this
society. which, in Quebec City, remains federalist.
Therefore, on behaif of the Saint-Jean-Baptiste Society, let us
hear it tor the Reform Party.
[Et glish]

by 5:15 p.m. and vote at 5:30 p.n1. on Wednesday, November 22.
1995.
NATIONAL FINANCE
NOTICE 0F MOTION TO AUTHORIZE COMMITEE
TO MEET )U RING SITTING 0F THE SENATE

Hon. LoweIl Murray: Honourable senators. I give notice that
on Tuesday next, November 28, 1995, I wiII move:
That the Standing Senate Committee on National Finance
have power to, sit at four o'clock in the afternoon on
Tuesday, November 28, 1995, even though the Senate may
then be sitting, and that mile 95(4) be suspended in relation
thereto.

ROUTINE PROCEEDINGS

QUESTION PERIOD

ADJOURNMENT

JUSTICE

Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourable senators, with leave of' the Senate.
and notwithstanding rule 58(1 >(h). I move:

SALE 0F AIRBUS AIRCRAFT TO AIR CANADA-ALLEGED
CONSPIRACY TO DEFRAUD FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT-DEPARTMENTAL LETTER TO SWISS
AUTHORITIES MINISTER'S INVOLVEMENT

That when the Senate adjourns today, it do stand
adjourned until Tuesday next. November 28. 1995. at
two o'clock in the atternoon.
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators. is leave
granted'?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Motion agreed to.

FIREARMS BILL
NOTICE 0F INQUIRY

Hon. Anne C. Cools: Honourable senators. pursuant to
miles 57(l )(2) and 58(2). 1 give notice that 1 wiIl eall the attention
of the Senate to the speech I had intended to give yesterday,
Wednesday, November 22. 1995, during debate on the motion of
the Honourable Senator Beaudoin. seconded by the
Honourable Senator Grimard. for the adoption of the sixteenth
report of the Standing Committee on Legal and Constitutional
Affairs on Bill C-68. respecting firearms and other weapons.
with amendments. presented in the Senate on Monday.
November 20, 1995; the speech that 1 was unable to give due to
time limitations imposed by the Senate Order to conclude debate

1 Senaior

Pi tîd

nniej

Hon. Marjory LeBreton: Honourahie senators. my question
is for the Leader of the Government in the Senate. It is with
regard to yesterday's news reports that the Minister of Justice is
investigating how the media became aware of the fact that the
Department of' Justice had made an officiai representation to
Swiss authorities regarding certain numbered accounts. We now
know that Mr. Roger Tassé, a former Deputy Minister of Justice.
now acting on behaif of former Prime Minister Mulroney, called
the minister on November 4. Mr. Rock has publicly
acknowledged this. We also know that Mr. Tassé wrote to
Mr. Rock on November 8.
Media people have confirmed
operatîves were trying to peddle
before the story broke on the CBC
the newspapers on November
November 5 or 6 until November

to me personally that Liberal
this story for at Ieast a week
news on November 12, and in
13 -in other words, from
12.

Atter Mr. Rock discussed this matter with Mr. Tassé on
November 4. what did he do'? With whom in his depariment. the
Prime Minister's Office and/or bis political staff did he discuss
this matter?
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators. obviously. I have no knowledge of those
specific details. 1 will take the honourable senator's question as
notice. Also, I have no knowledge of the honourable senator's
comments concemning operatives peddling a story.

November 23, 1995

2349
2349

SENATE DEBATES

SENATE DEBATES

November 23, 1995

Senator LeBreton: Perhaps the Leader of the Govemnment
should talk to those who will give her that information.
H-onourable senators, if Mr. Tassé had made a phone inquiry
on behaif of Mr. Chrétien, Mr. Turner or Mr. Trudeau, would the
Minister of Justice have treated this matter in such a cavalier
way?
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, the Minister of Justice has said quite
openly, and repeatedly, that he did flot respond to the request by
Mr. Tassé because il would flot have been proper, nor would it
have been appropriate.
HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT
REFORM 0F UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE SYSTEM-GUARANTEED
ANNUAL INCOME AS PART 0F PACKAGE GuVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. Gerald J. Comeau: Honourable senators, my question is
addressed 10 the Leader of the Govemnment in the Senate. Il is
regarding an announcement that is expected next week by ber
colleague the Minister of Human Resources Development
regarding unemployment insurance reform. I should like to refer

to a statement made by the same minister in the House on
November 2 in response 10 a question, in which he said:
I will tell the hon. member that one of the most important
elements we are putting together as part of the new
unemployment insurance package is what the Prime
Minister talked about in his speech last night. He said that
we will provide basic protection for families on low income
with children. It is something we have been talking about in
this country for a long lime, and we intend 10 do il.
-

The minister seemed to imply that this basic benefit wiIl be
part of the UI reform package. Can the leader clarify ber
colleague's statement? Is he suggesting that a guaranteed annual
income would become part of the UL package?
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, as my friend noted at the beginning of his
question, the Minister of Human Resources Developmenî will be
hringing forward legisiation soon. If my honourable friend would
wait until the legisiation appears, his questions may be answered.
TRANSPORT
SEARCH AND RESCUE HELICOPTER REPLACEMENT
PROGRAM-STATUS 0F EH-1O1 CONTRACT-NATURE 0F
MILESTONE PAYMENTS

Together with the amount of these so-called milestone
payments, 1 am anxious to know whether or not îhey were being
made under the guise of compensation. 1 ask tbis question 10
ensure that the amount of money paid out under the milestone
arrangements will be added 10 the total amount which will be
paid 10 cancel tbis particular contract.
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators. I will add my bonourable friend's questions
t0 the questions he asked yesterday.
NOVA SCOTIA
INDUSTRIAL MARINE PRODUC17S-RELOCATION 0F PLANT FROM
NORTH SYDNEY TO AMHERST-POSSIBLE DELAY IN
IMPLEMENTATION 0F DECISION-GOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. J. Michael Forrestaîl: Honourable senators, I am forced
10 ask this question today because apparently none of the Cape
Breton members of Parliarnent are sufficienîly concerned about
employment in North Sydney 10 bother 10 respond 10 urgent
requests from IMP employees. Industrial Marine Producîs îook
over an $18-million 10 $20-million federally-funded plant, for
wbich il paid $4 million to $5 million. Lt now intends 10 move ils
machinery out of North Sydney 10 Amherst. That is fine. They
are moving from an area heavily burdened by unemploymenî to a
relatively burdened area with respect to long-termi unemployment

of this nature. That is a decision which a corporate body can
make. Surely, before taking such a decision. there is a
responsibility on the part of the government. eitber provincially
or federally, or perhaps bolh. 10 ensure that aIl the options are
considered, and that tbey are considered in conjunction with
meaningful consultation with the unions involved.
Will the minister approach ber colleague in cabinet, the
Minister of Public Works, the senior minister from Nova Scotia,
and ask if he might intervene with a view 10 seeking a 30- 10
60-day moratorium 10 ensure that unionized and other employees
at that plant have every opportunily 10 make their case known
before IMP pulls out the machinery and moves il to Amherst,
causing the loss of alI those jobs?
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, I will be pleased to take Senator
Forrestall's representations 10 my colleague. I ar nfot aware of
the context of the question, but 1 shahl refer it 10 the minister.
e(1440>

JUSTICE

Hon. J. Michael Forrestall: Honourable senators, I have a
brief supplemenîary 10 a question 1 posed yesterday regarding the
final EH-101 contract. While the leader is endeavouring to get
the information 1 requested yesterday, which 1 believe is

SALE 0F AIRBUS AIRCRAFT TO AIR CANADA-ALLEGED
CONSPIRACY TO DEFRAUD FEDERAL GOVERNMENT-RANK 0F
RCMP OFFICERS ENGAGED IN INVESTIGATION

necessary. could she check into and obtain for this chamber the
amounts of the other payments wbich have been made? I refer to

Hon. Richard J. Doyle: Honourable senators, my questions
are supplementary 10 questions asked by Senator LeBreton and
are directed 10 the Leader of the Govemment in tbe Senate.

those payments which were described as "milestone"' paymnents.

Minister. you have been at pains to convince this chamber that
no member of the cabinet or no ranking officer of the
Department of Justice had any early knowledge of your
government s approach to the Government of Switzerland to
ferret out any stuff that might be used to indict a former prime
minister of Canada for secret crimes against bis country.
The Leader of the
with which she runs,
or said, or leaked, or
of that secret letter to

Governiment. like the cabinet colleagues
takes no responsibility for what was donc.
what was intended to be the terrible result
Switzerland.

My question is: If the Royal Canadian Mounted Police were
given total responsibility for the huîît f'or such a villain, why was
no officer above the rank of' sergeant found to take charge of the
posse?
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators. I would like to read that question before I
attempt to respond. 1 wiIl seek information for my honourable
friend on this matter. As 1 have said repeatedly. no member of the
cabinet was aware of the investigation. nor of the contents of the
letter.
Hon. John Lynch-Staunton (Leader of the Opposition>:
I do not believe that.
Senator Fairbairn: You may not believe it, but it is a tact.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: 1 do not. Did you go after a former
prime minister without at least one cabinet minister knowing
about it?
Senator Fairbairn: That is precisely what I have said.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: But you are happy to go after him
in letters. and caîl himi a crooki.
Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators. I will follow up on
Senator Doyle's question.
Senator Doyle: There are 1.710 sergeants presently in the
RCMP force. How did they decide which one of themn would
get the job'? Why were ail of the 1,390 Mounties above the
rank of' sergeant left behind to restart the burglar alarms at
24 Sussex Drive?
HEALTH
CONTROL OF SALE 0F TOBACCO PRODUCIS-NEED FOR
LEGISLATION GOVERNMEN T POSITION

Hon. Stanley Haidasz: Honourable senators, will the Leader
of the Covernment in the Senate inform this chamber as to
whether the government will bring in legislation controlling the
sale of tobacco prodtucts in Canada. iii view of the fact that the
Supreme Court has nîled on the constitutionality ot the Tobacco
Control Act with regard to advertising and f'ound it lacking. and
in view of inecasing representation froni the anti-tobacco lobby

fSenauoi

)o\ lc 1

for control of' tobacco products. which cost 41,000) Canadian
lives annually. and a loss to our economy of about $15 billion?
Senator Lynch-Staunton: Tobacco kilîs more than guns. That
is wbere their priorities are.
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators. the Minister of Health is actively looking
into this question. I do not have an answer for my honourable
friend now, but 1 will endeavour to obtain f'or him wbatever
information 1 can. Naturally. Ms Marleau is deeply conccrned
about this issue and will be trying to, find the most appropriate
way to deal with it.
INDUSTRY
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH-CUTS TO
BUDGET-TIMING FOR RELEASE 0F STUDY GOVERNN4ENT
POLICY
Hon. Noël A. Kinsella: Honourable senators. the research and
technology community in Canada is anxiously awaiting this
government's policy in the area of science and tecbnology
research. In the last budget. honourable senators will recaîl that
this govemrment cut $77 million from the budgets of the National
Science and Engineering Research Council and the Social
Science and Humanities Research Council. Tbey did that
notwitbstanding recommendations to the contrary by the Finance
Committee iii the other place. As well. last year's budget slashed
some $10 million from the budget of the Medical Research
Council. We can undcrstand. therefore. the concern under wbich
the research community in Canada is labouring. Some suggest
there has been an abdication of promises. whicb are easy to find
in the infamous Red Book. and that there be stable funding in the
area of research.
In a letter to the Canadian Association of' University Teachers
dated this month. the Minister of Industry Canada states that the
federal government remains committed to making science and
technology a top priority.
Honourable senators, my question to the Leader of' the
Govcrnment in the Senate is this: Is priority being given by ber
governiment to establîshing a well-articulated and well-defined
policy for Canada in the area of science and technology
research'?
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government): In
general terms. bonourable senators. the answer to that question is
yes. A bigb priority is being given by the governiment to the area
of science and technology. That was evident in the review canied
out by the Minister of State. Dr. Gerrard. The results of that
cross-country process are now being studied for possible future
action.
It is truc that there are budget constraints. However. science
and technolog y research is ail area which is considercd very
seriously. and is a high priority with this governiment.

November 23, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

SENATE DEBATES

November 23. 1995

Senator Kinsella: Honourable senators, perhaps the
honourable minister can tell us when she expects the government
to be in a position to release that study, which is known in the
research community to have been undertaken? They are anxious
to see what that study will say. Does the honourable minister
have any indication as to when it will be released?
Senator Fairbairn: I will talk to my colleagues, honourable
senators. I do not know personally at this moment what the
intention is vis-à-vis a release, or a date, or the timing on a
follow-up to that study, but I will attempt to obtain that
information for my honourable friend.
Senator Kinsella: Honourable senators, the minister may
recall that an indication was given that this blueprint of policy
would be out this fall. We are now getting towards the end of the
fall. Is that the type of time line the research community can
count on?
Senator Fairbairn: I will try to find that out for you.
DELAYED ANSWERS
Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourable senators, I have a response to a
question raised in the Senate on November 8, 1995, by the
Honourable Senator Comeau regarding firearms legislation
funding arrangements.

A letter was sent to the Government of Nova Scotia
May 24, 1995 from Justice Minister Allan Rock on the
issues of costs. Similar letters were also sent to the
Governments of all the provinces and territories.
Its continuing costs of administration will be funded by
revenues paid as fees by firearms owners.
The actual amounts will be set by regulations that
will be subject
to
Parliament's
review,
and
Federal-Provincial/Territorial
Firearms Financial
Agreements.
The administration of the Canadian Firearms Registration
System will be fully funded by the federal government and
costs recovered through fees.
Similarly, the actual issuing costs of al] Firearms
Licences, Registration Certificates, and Authorization
Permits will be recovered by the provinces and territories
through fees set in regulations to be reviewed by Parliament
and included in the Federal - Provincial/Territorial Firearms
Financial Agreements.
The objective of the Government is to make the entire
Firearms Program cost-neutral. Furthermore, it is the
Govemment's intention not to remove the front line police
officer from their duties in protecting the Canadian public.

FIREARMS BILL
PRIVILEGE

FUNDING ARRANGEMENTS WITH GOVERNMENT OF NOVA
SCOTIA-AVAILABILITY TO OTHER PROVINCES OF SIMILAR
ARRANGEMENTS-COSTS TO TAXPAYERS-GOVERNMENT POSITION

(Response to question raised by Hon. Gerald Comeau on
November 8, 1995)

In the document entitled a Financial Framework for
Bill C-68, An Act Respecting Firearms and Other Weapons
tabled by the Minister of Justice with the House Justice
Committee on April 24, 1995, anticipated costs and
revenues were identified.
The Federal Government has every confidence that the
Financial Framework document reflects the anticipated
revenues and expenses entailed in the design, development
and implementation of the registration system.
As for responsibility for costs incurred, the federal
government has made it clear throughout that the provinces
will not be called upon to pay for the design, development
or implementation of the registration system.

SPEAKER'S RULING

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, before I proceed
to call Orders of the Day, I wish to give my ruling on a matter of
privilege raised by the Honourable Senator Cools. I would ask
that my ruling be distributed to all honourable senators so that
they may follow the text of my comments.
Honourable senators. on November 6, 1995, the Honourable
Senator Cools raised a question of privilege to challenge whether
a certain kind of point of order can properly be raised, and
whether it is within the power of the Speaker to rule on such
points of order. In her submission, Senator Cools stated that:
A point of order cannot be used to compromise the
Speaker or the position of the Speaker, or to limit the
powers and privileges of the Senate. No point of order may
ask the Speaker to adjudicate on the competence of the
Senate to pass legislation.
Honourable senators will find that quote at page 2202 of the
Debates of the Senate.

[Translation]

By way of background. honourable senators will recaîl that on
October 17, Senator Cools presented to the Senate Bill S-Il1. an
Act concerning one Karla Homoîka. On October 19. following
the Table Officer's reading of the Order of the Day for the second
reading of Bill S-l . Senator Kinsella raised a point of order to
the effect that the matter contained in Bill S-Il1 was out of order
and not properly before the Senate. Eollowing a discussion
involving a number of senators, and in which some interesting
points were raised. the Speaker pro tempore reserved his
decis ion. 1 refer bonourable senators to the Debates of the Senîate
of that day at pages 2139 to 2143.

IEnglislh]
In her question of privilege Senator Cools stated:
...the Speaker of the Senate has no power or authority t0
adludicate the substance and intention of Bil! S-Il1 or of any
other bill. He has no power to settle questions regarding the
judicial result of Bill S-Il1 or regarding the Senate's pleasure
to pass or not to pass Bill S-1 I or the appropriateness or
righteousness of the Senate's actions in this regard. The
settlement of these questions belongs to the Senate
institutionally, and the manner in wbich the Senate usually
setties such questions is by consideration and debate of the
bill.
The accepted detinition of parliamentary privilege. based on
Erskine May, and stated in Beaucbesne. 6th edition, ai citation 24
explains that:
Parliamentary privilege is the surn of the pecutiar rights
enjoyed by cach House collectively as a constituent part
of ... Parliament. and by Members of ecd House
individually, without which they could not discharge their
functions...
Among these collective privileges. Beauchesne states. ai
citation 33:
The most fundamentat privitege of the House as a wbole
is to establish rules of procedure for itsetf and to enforce
them. A few rules are laid down in the Constitution Act, but
the vast majority are resolutions of the House which may be
added to, amended. or repealed at the discretion of thie
House.
Citation 26(lI) of Beauchesne defines a point of order as a
-question of order" which "concemns the interpretation to be put
upon the rules of procedure....
Siîîce the concern expressed by Senator Cools is about how
this chamber 15t0 proceed when conducting its business, it seems

clear to the Chair that she is not questioning the fundamental
right of the Senate to lay down procedural ailes. Rather. she is
questloning the interpretation of our rules and their application to
a particular tact situation.
The essence of ber question appears to be whetber the point of
order raised with respect to Bill S-Il1 is in order. and how the
presiding otfficer sbould act wben askcd to rule on such a point of
order.
[Translation]
With respect to, the substance of Senator Cools' concern. there
are many examples wherc senators have raised points of order
and asked the Speaker to make a ruling as to the procedural
acceptability of a bill or of amendments proposed to a bill. 1 refer
honourable senators te, the following precedents in the Debates of
the Senate: 1977-78, at pages 464-5, concerning a motion in
amendment t0 a bill proposed by Senator Forsey; 1986-87-88. ai
pages 2720-22. concerning a motion by Senator Grabam with
respect to Bill C-103, the Atlantic Canada Opportunities Agency
Bill; and 1989-90-92, at pages 156-157. concerning two buis.
S-3 and S-4, dealing with veterans allowances. In this latter
example. the Speaker was asked t0 aile whether tbe bills -were
in order and form suitable for the Senate to consider." The
Speaker ruled that the bills infringed the tinancial prerogative of
the Crown and ruled them out of order.

IEnglish]
Tbere are other precedents as well wbich clcarly cstablish tbat
a senator may ask the Speaker to rule wbetbcr a certain bill or
amendment is in order according to oiir rules and practiccs. In
thc present case. Senator Kinsella bas raised a point of ordcr
bccause. as be maintained. Bill S-Il1 sbould not bc considercd by
tbe Senate since. in his opinion. the bill is not one wbicb falîs
within the traditions, customs and rules of this chamber. To
support bis position, he cited a precedent from the other place.
By raising a point of order, Senator Kinsella was invoking
mIle 18, wbereby the Senate bas auîhorized the Speaker "wo
enforce the rules of the Senate."
At this point. I wisb to digress from my written ruling. wbicb
you bave betère you. and refer directly to, our Senate mile book.
Rule 18(2) says:
The Speaker shaît decide points of order and when so
doing shaîl state the reasons for the decision together with
references to the rule or other written authority applicable to
the case.
1 refer you as well to, aile 4(13) wbicb says:
*'Sbalt" is t0 be construed as imperative. and "may" as
permissive.

SENATE DEBATES

November 23, 1995

Under this rule, not only does the Speaker have a right, he has
an obligation.
In my opinion there was nothing improper in what Senator
Kinsella did, nor did Senator Ottenheimer or Senator
Lynch-Staunton act improperly.
Accordingly, I rule that there is no prima facie case of breach
of privilege with respect to the matter raised by Senator Cools.
Finally, I am still considering Senator Kinsella's point of order
raised on October 19. I will give my ruling soon.

ORDERS OF THE DAY
NATIONAL UNITY
RESULTS OF QUEBEC REFERENDUM-DEBATE ADJOURNED

Hon. Donald H. Oliver rose pursuant to notice of Wednesday,
November 1, 1995:
That he will call the attention of the Senate to the results
of the Referendum of October 30, 1995 in Quebec.
He said: Honourable senators, I rise today to speak to an
inquiry that I put on the Order Paper to permit honourable
senators an opportunity to express their views and concerns on
the future of a united Canada, in view of the troubling results of
the recent referendum in Quebec.
The Canada that I know and love includes Quebec. The
Canada that the United Nations has a habit of calling "the best
country in the world" includes Quebec. The country that makes
us proud to flash our Canadian passports when abroad includes
Quebec.
Why am 1, a unilingual politician from Nova Scotia, so
concerned about Quebec's separation? It is because Quebec's
contribution to our daily lives, our unique culture, is
quintessential Canada. To lose Quebec is to lose a bit of
ourselves or what we have become.
You are all well versed in the Quebec Act, the tradition of the
Roman Catholic religion, the French language and the civil law
traditions in Quebec, but as background for my comments on the
Meech Lake Accord, let me say a few things about culture.
My wife and I are attempting to become bilingual by
immersing ourselves in French-language training at St-Jean,
Quebec. Our professors teach us not only grammar and syntax,
but have opened the doors for us to the richness of the cultural
traditions of Quebec.

2353

Canada has been elevated in the eyes of the world by the
creative contributions of French artists, painters and artisans. The
artistic genius of a multiplicity of Quebec artists is at the heart of
what many around the world love and respect about Canada.
These artists explain, in one way or another, what it means to be
Canadian. They discuss that we have emotions, sensations and
instincts that determine our actions and reactions, and they put it
in such a way that they speak to all mankind. However, I do not
for a moment rule out our liberal democratic traditions of liberty
and freedom that distinguish us from so much of the world.

I have time only to touch briefly upon the influence of French
culture. I am referring to writers, architects, poets, authors,
composers, dancers, visual artists, pop and operatic vocalists and
sculptors. The more I read and study the cultural traditions and
the influences of Quebec in Canadian culture, the more I
appreciate what being Canadian means. I am aware that today we
have new artistic geniuses of such descents as Chinese, Japanese,
American, African and other new Canadians, but let us not forget
about the awesome contribution of the French from Quebec.
I have always subscribed to the view that artists, philosophers,
poets, painters, writers, and so on, see where the world is going
before most of us do. It has always taken time for cultural
developments to reach people at large. You could, for example,
see the French Revolution on canvass and in verse long before
the actual storming of the Bastille!
Have we in English Canada immersed ourselves deeply
enough in the works of contemporary Quebec artists to
understand the soul of the French people in Canada? Art is a
necessary and normal means of human expression. Revolutions
in attitudes and values. unlike political revolutions, proceed
mostly below the surface of man's actions. I am not surprised,
therefore, when people near my farm ask me: "What do the
people of Quebec really want?"
It may be instructive for we English-speaking Canadians to go
back to Rousseau, Voltaire and Montesquieu. They encouraged
us to have a new look at old institutions. Maybe there is a hope
for a better social order by rethinking and restructuring some of
our federal institutions. Is that not the lonely cry that we hear
from Quebec, and is that not similar to the cry we are hearing
from Canada's western provinces?
There are several things we of this body of sober second
thought can and should do to help restructure Canada for the
twenty-first century, the new millennium, that would not only be
a modern symbol for world democracies but would also probably
have the effect of creating a new united Canada.
Here are some of my ideas, for what they are worth:

At an appropriate time, an all-party committee of senators
should be established to go to Quebec and to meet with
Quebecers. Ali Quebecers who wished to express an opinion on
Quebec within Canada could then be heard. The committee
should then meet with opinion makers from all other provinces
and territories. It should meet with senior political figures in
Quebec City and also with other Quebecers - that is. executives.
business people, entrepreneurs. artists, artisans - who continue
to paint Quebec society within Canada. It will be from these
people that senators will learn what it means to be a Quebecer
and to be part of a cultural and linguistic minority both within
Canada and in North America. It will be through meetings with
the working people of Quebec that senators will discover the
hopes and dreams of "this people" - hopes and dreams
fashioned over hundreds of years, now exhibiting themselves in
the movement for sovereignty.
[Translation]
Senators will know the answer to the following question: What
does Quebec want? They will be able to pass on this information
to all Canadians.
As senators know, this kind of mission would normally be
carried out by a special joint committee that would include
members of the House of Commons. However, this is not
appropriate under the present circumstances.
There are in the House of Commons two political parties
whose prime objective is not to keep Quebec within Canada. At
least the Bloc Québécois does not hide its intention to get
Quebec out of the federation. As for the Reform Party, judging
by its position on the issue of the referendum. it is clear that it
would love to kick Quebec out of the federation.
[English]
In my view, it would be completely counter-productive to
involve the other place in such a fact-finding mission within
Quebec. The Honourable Jean Charest, the leader of the federal
Progressive Conservative Party, has shown, by his willingness to
do whatever was required of him during the referendum, that the
Progressive Conservative Party stands for a united Canada.
Mr. Charest's support for the Prime Minister, both before and
after October 30, illustrates that partisan party polities can be put
aside when the future of the country hangs in the balance.
Much more, however. must be donc in the weeks ahead than
the establishment of this committee to ensure that the people of
Quebec understand the love and affection that exists for them in
the rest of Canada.
On Friday, October 27. the demonstration in the streets of
Montreal was effective and impressive. As the editor of
Maclean's magazine, Robert Lewis. has stated, "It was the silver
lining for federalism in the outcome of the referendum."
Canadians stood up to be counted. The Quebec referendun

[ Senmto Oliver]

aroused a passion for Canada not seen in many years. Mr. Lewis
pointed out that parents took their children out of school to attend
pro-Canada rallies, and citizens by the thousands called and
wrote to Quebecers. urging them to vote "No." He believes that
the Quebec referendum illustrated for us the powerful lesson that
no nation can ever take itself for granted. These efforts could
have been much more effective if they had begun earlier. If the
Montreal demonstration had been held earlier, it could have been
followed by other demonstrations. The Friday demonstration
would not have been an isolated incident that allowed separatists
to question the sincerity and motives of those who took part.
Efforts to let Quebecers know the positive feelings from those
outside Quebec must be greatly increased. This increase must
take place between now and the next time Quebecers go to the
polis in either a provincial election or the next inevitable
referendum on sovereignty. Who should make this effort? It must
be a concentrated effort made by all Canadians. It must include
our political leaders from all levels of govemment in Canada. In
fact. it must be broader than that. It must include schools and
universities from across Canada, those in senior citizen
residences - all Canadians who believe that they can reach out
and who believe in a united Canada.
Letters should be written, visits should be undertaken to
Quebec and. ideally. Quebecers should go to other parts of
Canada to experience the deep concern and love ail of us feel.
Canadians should keep up the pressure on Quebec through
meetings. travel, letters to the editor and magazine articles that
concentrate on the benefits of a united Canada.
As Peter C. Newman has stated:
If Canada, outside Quebec, continues to ignore the
province's dreams and aspirations. there is now no doubt
that the next time around will truly be the country's last
chance.
If we are to win the hearts and minds of Quebecers, the virtues
and benefits of a united Canada must be emphasized. I would
hope that if we have learned anything from October 30, it is that
negative scare tactics are not only ineffective but also may prove
to be counter-productive.
I believe that those who have received the Order of Canada
owe a special duty to this country to spread the good news of the
future of a united Canada. They can reiterate, as citizens of a
united Canada, that we all benefit from the critical mass of the
Canadian economy, which has given us membership in the
world's most exclusive club, the G-7. Canada is a founding
member of NAFTA, APEC, the Asia-Pacific Economic
Cooperation organization, and it also plays a strong leadership
role in La francophonie.
As Jean Monty. President and CEO of Northern Telecom
stated recently:

November 23, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

2355

Canada is both an Atlantic and a Pacific Rim nation with
unusually privileged access to the North American market.
Canada's future lies in reaching outward, not looking
inward, and by building on the strengths of the Canadian
brand name, one of the most recognized and respected in the
world.

and important interpretive clause but it does not change the
distribution of powers or the Canadian Charter of Rights
and Freedoms. But it can, in certain cases, in particular
under section 1 of the Charter and in grey areas concerning
the distribution of powers, give more weight to certain
arguments.

Quebecers must be convinced that they, too, benefit from
Canada's place in the world because of its trading alliances, the
strengths of its economy, and its place in the community of
nations, as evidenced by the high respect accorded to it in such
organizations as NATO and the United Nations.

... it is an express rule of interpretation. It is important. It is
fundamental. It may influence the interpretation of the
courts under section 1of the Charter or the interpretation of
the division of powers, but it is not more than that and it is
not less than that. It is a rule of interpretation.

It is my hope that, through the vehicles which I have outlined,
Canadians who live outside Quebec will begin to know and
appreciate the hopes, the dreams and the fears of a Quebec
society.

The Right Honourable Robert Stanfield also expressed an
opinion on the distinct society wording when he said:

What form should this take? There are those who would shy
away from constitutional change, intent on resolving our
problems through administrative agreements. I believe that if we
are to make changes that will ultimately result in Canada and all
of its component parts functioning more effectively and
efficiently, we might as well open up the Constitution; as has
been stated by a noted constitutional scholar, Professor Max
Cohen, "the revered script of our national passion play."
When determining what prescriptions may be utilized to
resolve the differences within our country, one need look no
further than the Meech Lake Accord and certain parts of the
Charlottetown Agreement. Before discussing the sections of the
Meech Lake Accord which may benefit us, let us in this chamber
reflect on the fact that it was initiated by Prime Minister
Mulroney, supported by the Right Honourable John Turner, as
Leader of the Opposition, as was the Charlottetown Agreement
supported by Mr. Chrétien when he was opposition leader.
* ( s)

It is true it recognizes something special about Quebec not for the first time, by the way - and a role for Quebec in
connection with that identity. But it is a very limited thing.
There are no specific powers given to Quebec in that
connection. I find it very difficult to see how that puts the
country on any kind of a slope, and I do not have any
difficulty living with that degree of asymmetry in the
Constitution.
On the other hand, I think that we have been on a very
slippery slope following 1982. That is the slippery slope. If
the accord that has been negotiated is rejected, I think we
are on a very slippery slope indeed. To me, that is the
slippery slope we should be watching.
The accord went on to deal with immigration, giving
constitutional recognition to federal-provincial immigration
agreements such as those negotiated between Quebec and
Canada since 1971. It constitionalized Quebec's traditional veto
over major constitutional change. It also dealt with the Supreme
Court of Canada. It set out in the Constitution Quebec's right to
have three judges from Quebec on the court, and established a
procedure whereby provinces would nominate judges and the
federal government would appoint them from the list of
nominees.

The section of the Meech Lake Accord which attracted the
most comment, both negative and positive, was the distinct
society/linguistic duality section. The Constitution Act 1867 was
to be amended to include a new rule of interpretation whereby
The accord also contained a mechanism for governing the
the Constitution could be interpreted so as to recognize linguistic
duality as a fundamental characteristic of Canada, and Quebec as establishment of new shared-cost programs between the
a distinct society. More than a million francophones live outside provinces and the federal government. This clause attempted to
regulate the use of the federal spending power in areas of
of Quebec.
exclusive provincial jurisdiction. It obligated the federal
Controversy swirled around the question of what was meant government to provide reasonable compensation to the
by this clause for Quebec and for the rest of Canada. The distinct government of a province "that chooses not to participate in a
society clause articulated in the Constitution a political and national shared-cost program" if the province carries on a
sociological effect. Its effect was best described by Senator program or initiative that is "compatible with the national
Beaudoin, prior to being summoned to the Senate, when he objectives."
appeared as Professor Beaudoin before the Special Joint
While the accord went on to deal with changes in the method
Committee on the Meech Lake Accord.
of appointing senators, and constitutionalizing federal-provincial
In my opinion, as in the opinion of a good number of conferences, I believe that both of these matters will have to be
lawyers, the recognition of a distinct society ... is an explicit addressed anew later on.

Such matters as education. health care. and manpower job
training can be dealt with through administrative agreements or
through constitutional changes, if the parties so desire. As well, it
is possible that negotiations would touch on areas of overlapping
jurisdiction such as environmental regulation, forestry. tourism.
mining, and regional development. The view here would be to
eliminate federal participation.
The genius of our federal form of government is that it can
respond to various stimuli for change. It offers us the structure
within which we can reform and renew our system of
government.
As I said at the beginning, before we embark upon this journey
of change, we must determine what is in the hearts. minds and
souls of Quebecers. We must immerse ourselves in their culture,
because only in that way can we truly begin to understand the
sense of frustration. alienation and grievance which has led us so
recently to the brink of splitting up this great country.
Therefore, I conclude. honourable senators. with a plea to our
leadership; a plea to establish an all-party committee of senators
to go to Quebec, and in particular to Quebec City, to look into the
real needs of Quebec and to explore them with a view to
resolving those needs.
On motion of Senator Gauthier. debate adjourned.

SUPREME COURT OF CANADA
DECISION ON PRIVILEGES OF THE COURTINQUIRY-DEBATE ADJOURNED

Hon. Anne C. Cools rose pursuant to notice of Thursday,
November 2, 1995:
That she will call the attention of the Senate to a decision
of the Supreme Court of Canada. privileges of the Court.
and the learned judgment rendered by the distinguished
Justice, the Honourable Mr. Justice Peter Cory.
She said: Honourable senators, for generations. Canada was
governed by persons of high moral standing and high personal
moral fibre, many of whom learned these moral standards
through Christianity. Canada's national propensity for this high
standard was internationally renowned and respected. A notable
example was the late Right Honourable Lester B. Pearson, whose
success during the Middle East crisis in 1956 was largely
attributed to the exceptional regard and esteem held by all sides
for Mr. Pearson's personal moral stature and strength of
character. Sir Lyman Duff, Chief Justice of Canada from 1933 to
1944, was another example of a Canadian with such
well-regarded personal character.
Honourable senators, for some years now. much public
evidence has highlighted the enormous problems within the legal
profession and within the Law Society of Upper Canada. These

[Senator Oliver]

problems have their origins in the collapse of the moral and
professional standards of an earlier age and are largely centred in
the abuse of process. abuse of legal and judicial privilege, and
the commercialization of their positions as officers of the court.
Today I wish to draw the attention of the Senate to the
Supreme Court of Canada's decision in the case of Casey Hill
versus the Church of Scientology and Morris Manning. This case
is an appeal from the Ontario Court of Appeal, and the civil
litigation lasted eleven years, from 1984 to 1995, and involved
many prominent lawyers from Toronto. The distinguished
Mr. Justice Peter Cory, in an exhaustive judgment, dismissed the
Church of Scientology and Mr. Manning's appeal, affirming the
judgment of the Court of Appeal. In addition, Mr. Justice Cory
declined to adopt the "actual malice" rule, as in the New York
Times v. Sullivan decision. upholding the adequacy and
sufficiency of Canadian common and statute law.
To summarize, Casey Hill was a Crown attorney in Toronto
involved in investigating the Church of Scientology. The lawyers
for Scientology were Clayton Ruby, Michael Code, and Morris
Manning. The issues to be determined by the court were
solicitor-client privilege, privilege relating to documents in
judicial proceedings. occasion of privilege, libel, slander,
defamation, and the Charter of Rights and Freedoms.
Barristers Clayton Ruby. Michael Code, and Morris Manning
endeavoured to destroy Casey Hill in a style and manner
common in the practice of law and litigation currently. The
technique is the employment of false statements to deliver hurt
and injury, to impair an adversary, both personally and legally.
and to deter him from proceeding. To this end, Barristers Ruby,
Code. and Manning made certain false allegations about Casey
Hill's reputation and instituted contempt of court proceedings
against him, seeking his imprisonment.
To promote this court proceeding, the Church of Scientology
and their lawyers held a press conference on the steps of the
courthouse. Fully gowned in his lawyer's robes, Morris Manning
read to the media from a court document, a notice of motion not
yet filed with the court, announcing some poisonous and untrue
allegations about Mr. Casey Hill. The media coverage was
extensive.
Scientology's - and Mr. Manning's - contempt of court
proceedings against Casey Hill was heard by Mr. Justice
Cromarty in late 1984. Casey Hill was exonerated, the matter
was dismissed, and the allegations by the Church of Scientology
and its lawyers about Mr. Hill were judged to be unfounded and
untrue. The evidence was overwhelming that the allegations of
Scientology, Mr. Ruby and Mr. Manning against Mr. Hill were
false, and Mr. Justice Cromarty's judgment was unequivocal.
Subsequently, Casey Hill sued the Church of Scientology and
its lawyer. Morris Manning. for damages caused to Mr. Hill's
reputation by their impugning his character, competence, and
integrity. Scientology and Mr. Manning argued the defence of
privilege, claiming that the court documents, their utterances, and

November 23, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

the occasion of these words were protected by judicial privileges
which sheltered them from liability. Moreover, Scientology and
Mr. Manning were supported by the media in their initiative as
they urged the Americanization of Canadian law through the
adoption of the United States' "actual malice" rule of the New
York Times v Sullivan decision in defamation cases.
Honourable senators, the problem is a profound one, and is at
the heart of the crisis in civil and criminal justice in Ontario. The
problem is the use by barristers of the court process for harassing
and injuring others, that is, for civil molestation. The technique is
the utilization of false accusation, untruth and falsehood in court
documents and the subsequent shielding of these words and
actions behind judicial privilege. It is their use of the courts,
court documents, court privileges and proceedings as instruments
of malice and injury. The entire field of judicial privilege,
including solicitor-client privilege, begs clarification. The abuse
of legal and judicial process by the legal profession compels
attention and examination.
Regarding Scientology's attitude to Casey Hill as a Crown
attorney, Mr. Justice Cory in his judgment states:
Long before he gave advice to the OPP in connection
with a search and seizure of documents which took place on
March 3 and 4, 1983, Casey Hill had become a target of
Scientology's enmity. Over the years, he had been involved
in a number of matters concerning Scientology's affairs. As
a result, it kept a file on him. This was only discovered
when the production of the file was ordered during the
course of this action. The file disclosed that...Scientology
closely monitored and tracked Casey Hill and had labelled
him an "Enemy Canada." Casey Hill testified that from his
experience, persons viewed by Scientology as its enemies
were "subject to being neutralized."
Despite the fact that Casey Hill was cleared of the allegations,
and Mr. Justice Cromarty had made a judicial determination to
this effect, the Church of Scientology and Mr. Manning persisted
in their attack on Casey Hill. Mr. Justice. Cory states:
Scientology continued its attack against Casey Hill
throughout the trial of this action, both in the presence of the
jury and in its absence. More than once, it reiterated the
libel even though it knew that these allegations were false.
Clearly, it sought to repeatedly attack Casey Hill's moral
character....Counsel for Scientology subjected Casey Hill to
a lengthy cross-examination which the Court of Appeal
correctly described as a "skilful and deliberate attempt at
character assassination."
Mr. Justice Cory continued:
The day after the jury's verdict on October 4, 1991,
Scientology republished the libel in a press release delivered

2357

to the media. A few weeks later, it issued another press
release attacking the verdict of the jury as "outrageous" and
"so exorbitant..." Shortly thereafter, it proceeded with a
motion before Carruthers J. to adduce evidence which, it
contended, would bear "directly on the credibility and
reputation of the plaintiff S. Casey Hill."
Mr. Justice Cory cited the Ontario Court of Appeal about
barristers Manning and Ruby's insistence saying:
What the circumstances of this case demonstrated beyond
peradventure to the jury was that Scientology was engaged
in an unceasing and apparently unstoppable campaign to
destroy Casey Hill and his reputation. It must have been
apparent to the jury that a very substantial penalty was
required because Scientology had not been deterred from its
course of conduct by a previous judicial determination that
its allegations were unfounded nor by its own knowledge
that its principal allegation...was false.
About defamation and the Charter of Rights and Freedoms,
Mr. Justice Cory said:
Certainly, defamatory statements are very tenuously
related to the core values which underlie s.2(b). They are
inimical to the search for truth. False and injurious
statement cannot enhance self-development. Nor can it ever
be said that they lead to healthy participation in the affairs
of the community. Indeed, they are detrimental to the
advancement of these values and harmful to the interests of
a free and democratic society.
Mr. Justice Cory condemned false allegations saying:
False allegations can so very quickly and completely
destroy a good reputation. A reputation tarnished by libel
can seldom regain its former lustre. A democratic society,
therefore, has an interest in ensuring that its members can
enjoy and protect their good reputation so long as it is
merited.
Mr. Justice Cory outlined the religious and legal history of the
affirmation of truth and the punishment of untruth. He referred to
the Roman era, the Bible, the Mosaic Code and the Talmud. He
traced the history of the common law action for defamation to
the efforts of the Star Chamber to eradicate duels and blood
feuds, the favoured method of vindication for injured parties.
Mr. Justice Cory upheld the time-honoured principles on false
allegations saying:
To make false statements which are likely to injure the
reputation of another has always been regarded as a serious
offence.

Casey Hill has been guilty ot misconduct. It would be bard
to imagine a more difficult situation for the defamed person
to overcome .. ..A defamatory statement can seep into the
crevices of the subconscious and lurk there ever ready to
spring torth and spread its cancerous evil. The unfortunate
impression left by a libel may last a lifetime. Seldom does
the defamed person have the opportunity of replying and
correcting the record in a manner that will truly remedy the
situation.

Mr. Justice Cory. though pressed by Scientology's lawyers and
the media's lawyers. declined to adopt the American rule of
"ýactual malice." Mr. Justice Cory pointed out that. in the United
Kingdom and in Australia. this rule has been retused. Moreover,
he noted that a number of jurists in the United States have
advocated a reconsideration of thîs rule, and quoted American
Justice White that:
...these First Amendment values are flot at ail served hy
circulating talse statements of fact about public officiais. On
the contrary. erroneous information frustrates these
values. ....As the Court said in Gertz: "There is no
constitutional value in false statements of fact. Neither the
intentional lie nor the careless error materially advances
societyýs interests in 'uninbibited, robust. and wide-open'
debate on public issues."

Mr. Justice Cory noted the planned nature of the barristers
Manning and Ru by's defamatory statement, as well as the
location of the defamation. He said:
The publication of' the libelous sisatement was very
carefully orcbestrated. Members of the press and the
television media attended at Osgoode Hall in Toronto to
meet two prominent lawyers, Morris Manning and Clayton
Ruby. Osgoode Hall is the seat of the Court of Appeal and
the permanent residence of the Law Society. The building is
used as the background in a great many news reports ....In
the minds of the public, it is associated witb the law. witb
the courts and the justice system. Manning went far beyond
a simple explanation of the nature of the notice of motion.
He took these very public steps witbout investigating in any
way wbetber the allegations made were truc.

Finally, on the issue of judicial privilege as a protection from
liability. Mr. Justice Cory ruled that the court's privileges are not
to be abused, that wrongdoing can oust privilege and that
barrister Manning's bebaviour defeated any privilege. saying:
... îtl is my conclusion that Morris Manning's conduct far

exceeded the legitimate purposes of the occasion. The
circumstances of this case called for great restraint in the
communication of information concemning the proceedings
launched against Casey Hill. As an experienced lawyer,
Manning ought to have taken steps to confirm the
allegations that were being made ..In those circumstances
he was duty bound to wait until the investigation was
completed belore launcbing such a serious attack on Hill's
protessional integrity. Manning failed to take either of these
reasonable steps. As a resuit of this failure. the permissible
scope of his comments was limited and the qualified
privilege wbicb attached to his remarks was delèated.
The press conference was held on the steps ot Osgoode
Hall in the presence of representatives from several media
organizations. This constituted the widest possible
dissemination of grievous allegations of professional
misconduct that were yet to be tested in a court of law. His
comments were made in language that portrayed Hill in the
worst possible light. This was neither necessary nor
appropriate in the existing circumstances ...it was certainly
high-handed and careless. It exceeded any legitimate
purpose the press conférence may have served. Ris conduct,
therefore. defeated the qîîalified privilege that attached to
the occasion.
About the negative effect of the defamation, Mr. Justice Cory
said:
The written words emanating from the news conference
must have had an equally devastating impact. AIl who read
the news reports would be left with a lasting impression that

1Senaioi Cooek]

Mr. Justice Cory revealed the deliberate nature of' barristers
Manning and Ruby's action saying:
The existence of the file on Casey Hill under the
designation "Enemy Canada" was evidence of the malicious
intention of Scientology to -neutralize" bim. The press
contkerence was organized in sucb a maniner as to ensure the
widest possible dissemination of the libel.. It pleaded
justification or trutb of its statement wben it knew it to be
l'aise.

The Hon. the Speaker: Senator Cools. 1 am sorry to interrupt,
but your speaking time bas expired.
Senator Cools: Honourable senators, 1 would be happy to,
adjourn my remarks until Tuesday.
The Hon. the Speaker: It is not a question of adjourning your
remarks. Your time bas expired. Unless leave is granted, il is not
possible for you to adjourn your remarks.
e

(l')

How mucb time does the honourable senator need?
Senator Cools: Five minutes. 1 would be happy to carry on. It
is not a problem.

November 23, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

The Hon. the Speaker: Is leave granted. honourable senators?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Senator Cools: Mr. Justice Cory spoke firmly to malicious
injury, saying:
In summary, every aspect of this case demonstrates the very
real and persistent malice of Scientology. Their actions
preceding the publication of the libel, the circumstances of
its publication and their subsequent actions in relation to
both the search warrant proceedings and this action amply
confirm and emphasize the insidious malice of Scientology.
About the conduct of Scientology and its barristers, Ruby and
Manning, Justice Cory said:
Scientology's behaviour throughout can only be
characterized as recklessly high-handed, supremely arrogant
and contumacious. There seems to have been a continuing,
conscious effort on Scientology's part to intensify and
perpetuate its attack on Casey Hill without any regard for
the truth of its allegations.
Honourable senators, Toronto's newspapers report daily on the
enormous problems of the Law Society of Upper Canada and the
legal profession in Ontario. The new Attorney General of
Ontario, the Honourable Charles Harnick, has vowed to mend the
myriad problems which have developed and hardened over
several years. No doubt Mr. Harnick will meet resistance from
members of the profession and the Law Society itself. I
encourage Mr. Harnick to meet this challenge, to stand firm, and
not to back down in the face of opposition, detraction or
resistance from the lawyers. At risk are the proper administration
of justice in Ontario, the elimination of unjust practices and
offensive and dishonourable initiatives in the administration of
justice and in the practice of law. Mr. Harnick's initiatives as
Attorney General are timely and necessary.
Honourable senators, this judgment by the Supreme Court of
Canada, rendered by the distinguished and learned Mr. Justice
Cory and concurred in by Mr. Justice La Forest, Mr. Justice
Gonthier, Madam Justice McLachlin, Mr. Justice Iacobucci, and
Mr. Justice Major, is a benchmark decision, not only because of
the legal principles and statements, but especially because of the
moral position adopted. Justice Cory, in his judgment, upholds
the position that moral ground and moral principles must found
the basis of judicial action and the practice of law. He upholds
the Aristotelian maxim that moral principle and moral ground
must be inherent in the exercise of power in the courtrooms and
in Parliament. He upholds the principle that lawyers, because
they are officers of the court, have a duty to the administration of
justice, to justice itself and to truth itself.
The barristers in this case, representing the many interveners,
included Brian Finlay, Q.C., Christopher Tzekas,
Marc Somerville, Q.C., Ross Wells, Robert Armstrong, Q.C..

2359

Kent Thomson, Lori Sterling, Hart Schwartz, Robert Sharpe,
Kent Roach, Edward Morgan, Peter Hogg. Brian MacLeod
Rogers. The interests were numerous and financially enormous.
About their intervener status. the pecuniary interests and their
interventions, Mr. George Bain, in a Maclean's article dated
August 28, 1995 called "The Pressure to Change Libel Law,
writes:
By their demonstrated interest in the case, the media have
encouraged Scientology in arguing that Canadian libel law
contradicts the 1982 constitutional guarantee of freedom of
expression... .The media also encouraged the notion that the
time has come to make Canadian libel law more American...
Mr. Bain notes that:
...of the 1l bodies that had standing as interveners at the
appeal, only two - the Canadian Civil Liberties
Association and the Attorney General of Ontario - had no
discernable interest in the commerce of putting words on
paper or on the air. The others were; the Writers Union of
Canada; the Canadian sprig of the international
writers-and-rights organization, PEN; the Canadian
Association of Journalists; the Periodical Council; the
Canadian Daily Newspaper Association; the Canadian
Community Newspapers Association; the Canadian
Association of Broadcasters; the Radio-Television News
Directors Association of Canada; and the Canadian Book
Publishers Council jointly with the Canadian Magazine
Publishers Association.
On recognizing the media intervention in the case, and
pointing directly at the commercial interests and profitability
fuelling these interventions, George Bain goes to the heart of the
matter with his question:
What was such a nice bunch of nationalist publishers doing
in the Supreme Court arguing for the Americanization of
Canadian Law?
Honourable senators, many commercial interests are at work
in this country, not the least of which is that of the legal
profession and the Law Society of Upper Canada. The Law
Society of Upper Canada is governed by the benchers. Justice
Cory points out in the judgment that Mr. Ruby, during this
unconscionable and mean-spirited legal offensive, was
simultaneously a bencher of the Law Society. About Mr. Ruby's
harsh letter to Mr. Hill of September 6, 1984, Mr. Justice Cory
said:
It should be noted that at the time this letter was written,
Clayton Ruby was a Bencher of the Law Society and
Vice-Chairman of the Law Society's discipline committee.
The letter implied that there could be disciplinary
proceedings brought before the Law Society of Upper
Canada....

The conclusion is self-evident. Mr. Ruby exercised his powers
as a barrister recklessly and then compounded the wrongdoing by
using his position as a bencher and vice-chairman to threaten
Casey Hill with disciplinary action trom the Law Society. 1 arn
told. honourable senators. that such threats by benchers to their
adversaries are not uncommon. Honourable senators. ruminate
on this situation and the result. had Casey Hill complained to the
Law Society about Mr. Ruby's conduct and activities.
Honourable senators should also note that during these events.
Clayton Ruby's pantner and friend, Michael Code. Casey Hill's
other adversary and detractor, was appointed by Premier Rae to
be Casey Hilî's boss, to wit. to be the Assistant Deputy Attorney
General of Ontario. These situations are troubling and need
discussion and examination.
Honourable senators. in conclusion. this travesty of justice
lasted eleven years and ended in July 1995 when Mr. Justice
Peter Cory delivered his judgment. His judgment asserted that
judicial privilege cannot shelter wrongdoing, that lawyers shaîl
not rely on judicial privilege to shield them from responsibility
and persona] liability. that lawyers shaîl not use court processes
and judicial proceedings to commit sianderous behaviour, and
that the administration of justice and the practice of' law cannot
be founded on untruth. mean-spiritedness or wrongdoing.
Honourable senators. it truly was. 1 believe, an outstanding
judgment. It is an outstanding piece of thinking by Mr. Justice
Peter Cory. 1 recommend it to aIl for reading and study. Also.
honourable senators should know that Casey H-ill is today ajudge
of the Ontario Court (General Division).

afternoon, Thursday, November 30. 1995. even though the
Senate may then be sitting. and that rule 95(4) be suspended
in relation thereto.
Motion agreed to.
STATE 0F CANADIAN FINANCIAL SYSTEM NOTICE 0F MOTION
TO EXTEND DATE 0F FINAL, REPORT WITIIDRAWN

On the Order:
That, notwithstanding the order of reference adopted by
the Senate on Wednesday, November 30. 1994. the Standing
Senate Committee on Banking, Trade and Commerce bc
authorized to continue its examination into the present state
of the financial system in Canada;
That, in conducting this study. the Committee pursue. in
particular. its examination into Crown financial institutions,
corporate governance. and the 1992 reform of financial
institutions;
That, notwithstanding usual practices, if during the winter
adjoumment the Senate is not sitting when the Committee*s
report on its review of Crown financial institutions is
completed, the report may be deposited with the Clerk of
the Senate and it shall thereupon be deemed to have been
presented to that Chamber: and
That the Committee present its final report no later than
September 26, 1996.

On motion of Senator Gauthier. debate adjourned.
BANKING, TRADE AND COMMERCE

Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Gnvernment): Honourahie senators, on behalt of Senator Kirby.
1 ask that Order No. 115 be withdrawn.

COMMITTEE AUTHORIZED TO MEET
DURING SITTING 0F THE SENATE

The Hon. the Speaker: Is there unanimous consent,
honourable senators, to withdraw Order No. 115?

Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government) for Senator Kirby. pursuant to notice ot
Wednesday. November 22, 1995. moved:
That the Standing Senate Committee on Banking, Trade
and Commerce have power to sit at two o'clock in the

Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Order withdrawn.
The Senate adjourned until Tuesday, November 28, 1995, at
2 p.m.

THE SENATE
Tuesday, November 28, 1995
The Senate met at 2:00 p.m., the Speaker in the Chair.
Prayers.

SENATOR'S STATEMENT
UNITED NATIONS

VISITORS IN GALLERY
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, I should like to
draw your attention to the presence of a distinguished group in
our gallery today. I refer to a parliamentary delegation from
Romania.
[Translation]

I am pleased to present to you the leader of the group,
Mr. Valeanu, a member of the Romanian parliament and the
chairman of its foreign affairs commission, as well as
vice-president of the Romania-Canada Parliamentary Friendship
Group. Accompanying him are a number of members and
senators from the Romanian parliament, as well as the Romanian
chargé d'affaires in Canada.
[English]

We welcome you to our gallery and to our country.
Hon. Senators: Hear, hear!
PAGES EXCHANGE PROGRAM
WITH HOUSE OF COMMONS
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, I should like to
introduce to you two House of Commons pages who have been
selected to participate in the exchange program with the Senate
for the week of November 20 to 24.
[Translation]

Julie Bazinet of Sudbury, Ontario is studying at the Faculty of
Commerce, University of Ottawa.
[English]

Jeremy LeBlanc is studying political science at the University
of Ottawa and is originally from Eastern Passage, Nova Scotia.
We welcome both of you to the Senate.

PERMANENT SECRETARIAT ON BIOLOGICAL DIVERSITY
TO BE LOCATED IN MONTREAL

Hon. Peter Bosa: Honourable senators, a few days ago we
were delighted to learn that the Permanent Secretariat of the
United Nations Convention on Biological Diversity will be
located in the city of Montreal. The Government of Canada had
made an official offer to have Montreal selected, and the
Conference of the Parties to the Convention voted in favour of
Canada at a meeting in Jakarta earlier this month.
Four cities were proposed: Geneva, Madrid, Nairobi and
Montreal. We faced stiff competition, but the Canadian bid,
which was supported by three levels of govemment, was a strong
one. Canada has a solid scientific, technological and industrial
base, and a wealth of experience and expertise in this area of
biological diversity.
The successful conclusion of this bid was the result of hard
work in many quarters. The preparation of the proposai itself
took cooperation and planning by officiais in the federal,
provincial and municipal governments. Then there was the big
sales job undertaken by officiais, diplomats and politicians.
One of the reasons I am raising this subject today is to speak
about the role of the Inter-Parliamentary Union as a forum where
we can promote Canadian interests. Earlier this fall, I informed
honourable senators of a special session of the
Inter-Parliamentary Union to celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of
the United Nations which was held at the United Nations
headquarters in New York at the end of August. This event was
attended by 253 parliamentarians from 74 countries.
The timing of this IPU conference was especially propitious,
for we used this occasion to speak to our colleagues from other
countries about the advantages of locating the permanent
secretariat in Montreal. The Deputy Leader of our delegation,
Mr. Maurice Dumas, MP for Argenteuil-Papineau, and I divided
the workload, with Mr. Dumas meeting the leaders of the
francophone delegations while I spoke to the others. This special
meeting, which brought us all together for three days, provided
us with the opportunity to speak to other delegates and to
advance the Canadian bid.
I can tell honourable senators from first-hand experience that
the Canadian proposai was weil received by other
parliamentarians, and several asked for further details about our
bid. I should like to pay tribute to the tremendous staff of our
mission in New York who assisted us throughout this exercise.

We are ail delighted that Canada bas been recognized
international ly for its strong infrastructure and scienti fic
achievements. It is gratifying to me personally that, as a member
of the Canadian IPU delegation, 1 could help to advance this
worthwhile and important cause. We rejoice in having succeeded
in our bld to establish the Permanent Secretariat of the United
Nations Convention on Biological Diversity in Canada.
0

That when the Senate adjourns today. it do stand
adjourned until Wednesday, November 29, 1995, at
one-thirty o'clock in the afternoon.

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators. is leave
granted?

Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Motion agreed to.

i1410)

COMMONWEALTH PARLIAMENTARY ASSOCIATION

ROUTINE PROCEEDINGS
AGRICULTURE AND AGRI-FOOD ADMINISTRATIVE
MONETARY PENALTIES BILL
REPORT 0F C0MMIYTEE

Hon. Dan Hays. Chairman of the Standing Senate Committee
on Agriculture and Forestry. presented the following report:

FORTY-FIRST COMMONWEALTH PARLIAMENTARY CONFERENCE.
COLOMBO. SRI LANKA-REPORT TABLED

Hon. P. Derek Lewis: Honourable senators. 1 have the honour
to table in both officia] languages the report from the Canadian
Branch, Commonwealth Parliamentary Association. concerning
the Forty-first Commonwealth Parliamentary Conference held in
Colombo. Sri Lanka, from October 3 to 14, 1995.
BANKING, TRADE AND COMMERCE

Tuesday. November 28, 1995
The Standing Senate Committee on Agriculture and
Forestry has the honour to present its
TWELFTH REPORT
Your Committee. to which was referred Bihl C-61, An Act
to establish a system of administrative monetary penalties
f'or the enforcement of the Canada Agricultural Products
Act, the Feeds Act, the Fertilizers Act. the Health of'
AnimaIs Act, the Meat Inspection Act, the Pest Control
Products Act, the Plant Protection Act and the Seeds Act.
bas. in obedience to the Order of Reference of Tuesday.
November 7. 1995. examined the said Bill and now reports
the same without amendment.
Respectfully submitted.
DANIEL HAYS
Chaimnan

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators. when shaîl this
bill be read the third time?
On motion of Senator Hays, bill placed on the Orders of the
Day for third reading at the nexî sitting of the Senate.

ADJOURNMENT
Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourable senators. with leave of' the Senate.
and notwithstaindine,- mie 58(1 )(h). 1 inove:

1Senatoi

Bo',a 1

STATE 0F CANADIAN FINANCIAL SYSTEM NOTICE 0F MOTION
TO EXTEND DATE 0F PRESENTATION 0F FINAL REPORT

Hon. Michael Kirby: Honourable senators, 1 give notice that
tomorrow. Wednesday, November 29, 1995, 1 will move:
That. notwithstanding the order of' reference adopted by
the Senate on Wednesday, November 30. 1994, the Standing
Senate Committee on Banking. Trade and Commerce,
which was authorized to examine the' present siate of the
financial systemn in Canada, be empowered to prescrit, ils
final report no later than Tuesday. December 10, 1996:. and
That. notwithstanding usual practices. if the Senate is not
sitting when an interim report ot the Committee is
completed, the Committee shahl deposit its report with the
Clerk of the Senate, and said report shaîl thereupon be
deemed to have been tabled in this Chamber.
[Later]

AGRICULTURE
RESPONSE 0F MINISTER TO REPORTS 0F STANDING SENATE
COMMIlTEE NOTICE 0F INQUIRY

Hon. Dan Hays: Honourable senators, 1 give notice that. on
Wednesday next, 1 will caîl the attention of the Senate to the
response of the Honourable Ralph Goodale. Minister of
Agriculture and Agri-Food, to the Standing Senate Committee on
Agriculture and Forestry*s ninth report. "Farm Machinery: Lost
Lives. Lost Limbs."* and its eleventh report. "Agricultural Trade.
Report of the Standing Senate Committee on Agriculture and
Forestry's FacI Finding Mission to Washington and Winnipeg.-

SENATE DEBATES

November 28, 1995

NATIONAL FINANCE
COMMITTEE AUTHORIZED TO MEET
DURING SITTING OF THE SENATE

Leave having been given to proceed to Order No. 116 (Notices
of Motions):
Hon. Lowell Murray, pursuant to notice of Thursday,
November 23, 1995, moved:
That the Standing Senate Committee on National Finance
have power to sit at four o'clock in the afternoon, Tuesday,
November 28, 1995, even though the Senate may then be
sitting, and that rule 95(4) be suspended in relation thereto.
Motion agreed to.

QUESTION PERIOD
QUEBEC
PRIME MINISTER'S PROPOSALS-MEANS OF GAINING NECESSARY
CONSENT OF PROVINCES-GOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. Lowell Murray: Honourable senators, my question
arises from the statement made by Prime Minister Chrétien
yesterday concerning measures to be placed before Parliament,
measures of a non-constitutional character but touching upon the
Constitution. In particular, I draw the leader's attention to the
undertaking by the Prime Minister that Justice Minister Rock
will table a bill in the House of Commons on Wednesday that
will require the consent of Quebec, Ontario, and the Atlantic and
western regions before any constitutional amendment can be
proposed in Parliament by the Government of Canada.
There are many questions which arise from that, but my
question is, how will that consent be obtained? Is it to be
obtained in consultation with the governments of those
provinces, through the legislative assemblies of those provinces,
or by way of referendum?
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, I have asked myself this question: What
does "direct consent" mean? The Prime Minister has outlined the
three obvious options, and, as I understand it, it would be up to
the federal govemment to decide which route would be chosen.
I need to get more information on that point myself, but the
options laid out were the three that the honourable senator has
mentioned, these being a direct executive-provincial govemment
approach, a legislative assembly approach, or referendum.
Senator Murray: Honourable senators, I presume, however,
that the bill will not be silent on the matter. I presume the bill

2363

will state how the federal government would obtain that consent.
It would not be left to some future discretion of the federal
government, would it?
Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators, I have not seen the
detailed bill. It will be out tomorrow.
NATIONAL DEFENCE
SEARCH AND RESCUE HELICOPTER REPLACEMENT PROGRAMREQUEST FOR TABLING OF STATEMENT OF REQUIREMENTS AND
REPORT ON SEARCH AND RESCUE CAPABILITY REQUIREMENTS

Hon. J. Michael Forrestail: Honourable senators, my
question for the Leader of the Government relates to the
purchase of the 15 new search and rescue helicopters. There
appears to be somewhat of an air of secrecy surrounding the
details of the purchase of this new equipment. Apparently the
Statement of Requirements, which includes pertinent information
on performance capability requirements, is not readily available
from the Department of National Defence.
Given the difficulties we are having in obtaining this
document, could the Leader of the Govemment please give us an
undertaking to obtain and table that particular document for us?
0 (1420)

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, I can give my honourable friend an
undertaking that I will attempt to do that.
Senator Forrestail: Honourable senators, given that the
govemment has indicated that there is no secrecy regarding the
requirements for this new equipment, could the Leader of the
Govemment in the Senate also provide us with a copy of the
Search and Rescue Capability Requirements Report prepared by
the Director of Air Operational Requirements in June of 1990?
Perhaps the honourable leader could also advise this chamber
whether that document was, in fact, updated in conjunction with
the purchase of this new equipment, and if so, could she provide
senators with the updated document?
Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators, with respect to all
of those questions, I will be in touch with the Minister of
National Defence. I will see what I can find out on behalf of my
honourable colleague.
Senator Forrestall: Honourable senators, the reason for the
importance of having these documents tabled is to ascertain the
priorities of the govemment in terms of what these search and
rescue helicopters will be equipped to do. The 1990 Statement of
Requirements states very plainly:
Some inherent subjectivity exists in quantifying SAR
requirements; speed, range and capacity are examples where
any decision for greater or lesser capability would
undoubtedly result in lives saved or not saved in the future.

The Minister of Defence indicated that this equipment would
have 15 per cent iess capability than the EH-lOI. Given the
serious implications of any reduction in capability. as I have now
cited from the 1990 document, would the Leader of' the
Governiment in the Senate please ensure that aIl relevant
documents. inciuding the 1995 Statement of Requirements. are
tabled in this chamber? What we want to sec is the difference
bctween the 1990 report and the 1995 Statement of'
Requirements.
Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators, 1 wili do what I can
for my honourable friend.
[Translation]

LEGAL AND CONSTITUTIONAL AFFAIRS
SCtIEDULE OF WORK OF THE COMMITTEEPOSITION OF CHAIRMAN

Honourable Jean-Robert Gauthier: Honourable senators.
my question is directed to the chairman ot' the Standing
Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs.
Could the chairman inform us of the schedule of' bis
committee's meetings f'or the next few days. so that it may
terminate its task and report ta the Senate on Bill C-22, an act
respecting certain agreements concerning the redevelopment and
operation of Terminais I and 2 at Lester B. Pearson International
Airport. as well as on Bill C-69. an act ta provide for the
establishment of electoral boundaries commissions and the
readjustment of electoral boundaries?
My question is a simple one: When can the Senate expect to
have a report t'rom the commitice, or news of' what is going on in
committee?

Honourable Gérald-A. Beaudoin: Honourable senators. ta
begin with Bill C-22. we have reached the conclusion that the
amendments that had been proposcd by the government do flot
fully comply with the principles of the primacy of law and the
ruIe ot iaw. Our objections and arguments in this connection are
based on the following principle: with these amendments. the bill
does not completely re-establish access ta the courts. and thus we
do flot consider that the principle of the -ruIe of' law" has been
respected.
I am fully prepared to cal the coinmittee again to cunsider
Bill C-22 and report on it if you wish. but I must tel! you
immediately that the report wiii state that the bil! does flot adhere
ta the principies of the primacy of law and the rule ot Iaw, which
are part ot the Canadian Constitution.
As tor Bil! C-69, oniy a fcw days ago we heard the testimony
of Professor Hutchinson of Toronto. a constitutionaiist. We have
aiso heard from two jurists representing Mr. Kingsley, the Chief

1Seîiatoi I-oriestall 1

Electoral Officer. and our conclusion is still the same. If we
accept Bill C-69 as worded. the next federal general election will
probably be based on the 198!1 census. rather than the 1991 one.
We consider that section 51 of' Canada's Constitution requires
Parliament to hold the nexi elections on the basis of the
1991 census.
The Senate
Constitution in
Constitution. If
is what 1 would

has every right to cite a principle in the
flot voting in favour of' a bill that infringes the
we had to make a quick report on the subject. this
say. We wili discuss the matter in committee.

In both cases, however. our position is based on a principle of
constitutional law. 1 think the House of sober second thought is
perfectly entitled to reject a bil! or two that infringe the Canadian
Constitution. That is my answer for the moment.

Senator Gauthier:. Honourable senators. you wiII note that
my question did not concern the substance of the buis, but the
committee chairman is answering me as if it did. This bothers me
a bit. It is not up to the committee to decide for the whole of the
house what should take place here.
I therefore put my question again: What is the committee's
agenda for the coming week or until the Christmas holidays? Can
we expect a report. or at Ieast that tbe committee will sit between
now and Christmas?!

Senator Beaudoin: I am perlectly prepared to have the
committee sit to, hear other witnesses and prepare a report before
Christmas, if you like.
For the moment, committee members are studying Bis C-45
and C-7, and we have pienty to do. We wiil returfi to the other
two bis later.
Senator Gauthier: Honourabie senators. is the chairman of
the Standing Committee on Legal and Constitutionai Affairs
teiling us that they have a veto on this committee. allowing them
to suspend work on Bis C-22 and C-69? Am I to understand
that the committee has decided not to proceed any further, that
the committee has absoiutely vetoed a question that concernis the
Senate?

Senator Beaudoin: We have flot decided flot to, go any further.
I can tell you that. if there is a vote in committee, the bitl will be
defeated.
Senator Gauthier: How can you anticipate that?

Senator Beaudoin: I tel! you. our position rests on two
principies of constitutionai law: The first is the mile of law and
access to the courts. and the other is section 5 1 of the Canadian
Constitution. We have heard witnesses and we can hear more.
They will come and contirmn what the others have said. At some
point. we will have to have a vote in committee.

November28,
1995SENATE
DEBATES

November 28, 1995

Senator Gauthier: That is what I want to know

-

when?

Senator Beaudoin: 1 arn ready to take il at any time.
Senator Gauthier: That is my question. Can the chairman
assure us that these bis - C-22 and C-69 - wili be reported to
the house within 24 hours, given that the situation is such that the
chairman himself expects a negative vote. Let the committee
chairman take the vote and report to the Senate that there was
dissidence on the committee. That is ail.
[English]
HEALTH
REORGANIZATION 0F BLOO SUPPLY SYSTEM-TIMING 0F FINAL
REPORT 0F KREVER COMMISSION-GOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. Richard J. Doyle: Honourable senators, some weeks
ago I received answers to questions that I had asked of the
Leader of the Government in the Senate last June about the
reorganization of the biood supply system. The text of the reply,
some 700 words - longer than most of my questions - was
strong on assurances and short on details. Special attention was
given to the interim report of Justice Krever, who:
...recognizes that the system today is dynamîc and
undergoing changes at a rapid rate.
The reply then continues:
Where practical and warranted. the government is
prepared to apply its expertise to assist others in
implementing Justice Krever's recommendations relating to
their jurisdictional authorities.
The reply continues further:
General questions about the national blood supply system
would best be served by referring to Justice Krever's advice
in his final report which is due to be submitted 10 the
government by December 31 of this year.
Many senators share my concemn that without evidence of
action in preparation of a contingency plan, only delay will
follow the submission of the report; delay in response to the
terrible neglect of the 1970s and 1980s; neglect that resulted
directly in the spread of AIDS through the blood supply that the
Red Cross, government agencies and other interested parties had
reason to believe was contaminated.
Honourable senators, we are told that Justice Krever has
applied for a further delay in the submission of his final report.
Could the Leader of the Government tell us how far down the
road that report might be?
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, I arn aware of the application for a further
extension. 1 wiIl check with my colleague to sec if any decision

2365
26

has been made on that. and reply promptly to my honourable
friend's question.
Senator Doyle: When that lime cornes and we know what date
we might expect to hear from Justice Krever, will the
government then have an answer for the suppliers who have
resolutely refused to apologize for their part in the contamination
of the blood supply more than a decade ago?
Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators, I share my
honourable friend's concernis, and 1 wiIl try to find a response to
that question.
INTERNATIONAL TRADE
REPRIEVE FROM PLANNED EMBARGO ON CANADIAN FURSPOSSIBILITY 0F BANNING LEG-HOLD TRAPSGOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. Mira Spivak: Honourable senators, as The Globe and
Mail reported on Friday, Canada has won a one-year reprieve
from the Enropean Union's planned embargo on Canadian furs,
but the victory wiIl be wasted unless the government now tums
to helping trappers give up, within that year, the ieg-hold traps
that Europeans find so objectionable.
That is the opinion of Brian Craik of the Grand Council of the
Crees of Northern Quebec. The vast majority of Cree trappers
already use the Conibear trap, which is acceptable to the EU.
What steps will the government take within the next
12 months to ensure that trappers have shifted to more humane
traps, and that this reprieve is not wasted?
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, 1 join with my honourable friend in
expressing satisfaction that we have a year in which to try to
resolve this long-standing dispute that is of particular concemn t0
the aboriginal people in relation to their livelihood in the north. Lt
would be the intention of the govemment to use that year to try
to find a solution which meets the concernis of our aboriginal
people, as weIl as the concerns of the European Community, and
1 can assure her that 1 will try t0 obtain any details that 1 can.
This is a matter which the government takes very seriously, and 1
can assure my honourable friend that we will be using this
reprieve, as she terms it, to address this concemn.
Senator Spivak: Can the Leader of the Govemment in the
Senate tell me which is the lead ministry on this question? 0f
course, while it is primarily the trappers who are concerned,
there are also manufacturers, some of whom are based in
Winnipeg, who would very much like to know under whose
jurisdiction this malter will be deait with.
Senator Fairbairn: 1 wouid imagine, Senator Spivak that,
because of ils very nature, there wilI be a cooperative effort on
this malter, but the lead department will be the Department of
International Trade.

NATIONAL DEFENCE
MARITIME AND AERIAL SURVEILLANCE AND CONTROLENHANCEMENT OF ARTIC CAPABILITIESGOVERNMENT POLICY

Hon. Gerald J. Comeau: Honourable senators. 1 sbould like
to quote from the 1993 Liberal Foreign Policy Handbook. which
promised that:
A Liberal defence program will include a continued role in
maritime and aerial surveillance and control. with particular
emphasis on enhancing Arctic capabilities.
1 have donc some researcb, and 1 have been unable to find that
any action bas been taken to enhance Arctic research. As we
know, and as was raised by my colleague the Honourable Senator
Forrestal. there has even been a 15 per cent reduction in
capability of' tbe new search and rescue helicopters. Therefore.
would the leader agree tbat ber govemment's promise to enbance
Arctic capabilities bas been, in fact, anotber broken promise?

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, 1 certainly would flot agree witb tbe
honourable senator. However, 1 will try to tind some information
for you on tbe status of that commitment.

Andreycbuk will know. the country under consideration at the
moment is Nigeria. The Canadian government is working flot
only within tbe Commonwealtb but also the United Nations to
find tbe best multilateral approacb to dealing witb tbe tragic and
unacceptable situation wbicb bas developed in tbat country.

Senator Andreychuk: lIfthe leader is bringing in an answer at
a later date, perbaps she could also bring in tbe reply to the
following: The Honourable Minister Ouellet stated on
November 9 tbat tbe Liberal government ougbt not to isolate any
person or any leader of' any country or any government because
we do not sbare their policies. However be also stated that. in
extreme cases. Canada could scale back developmnent assistance
to countries wbicb persist in abusing tbe rights of its citizens. Do
we need to wait until tbere is an execution before contemplating
such mnatters, as in the case of Nigeria. or will tbe govemnment
begin its considerations once it becomes evident that tbere is
persistent abuse'?
In the case of' Nigeria. l'or example, the rule of law was not
present. Democratic principles were not present. Tbe person in
cbarge of the country was there by military means only. The
repression and degradation of' tbe people bad existed for quite a
considerable time. Is it only after an execution that Canada
begins to consider scaling back its development assistance'?
1Translation ]

HUMAN RIGHTS
IMPOSITION 0F EMBARGOES AND SANCTIONS AGAINST
TRANSORESSOR COUNTRIES-GOVERN MENT POLICY

Hon. A. Raynell Andreychuk: Honourable senators. tbe
government bas indicated consistently tbat it ks not in favour of'
eitber sanctions or embargoes against countries. since it does not
wish to isolate tbem on matters of' differences in policy. On
October 17 of tbis year, we were informed by Senator Graham
tbat Canada was not comtemplating imposing an embargo on any
country in the worid at present. However, soon after. at the
Commonwealth conference, we leamned that the govemnment was
contemplating sanctions against one country, tbat being Nigeria.
0(1l440)

FISHERIES AND OCEANS
TIMELINLSS OF ANNUAI, IEPARTMENTAL REPOKr(,OVERNMENT POI ICY

Hon. Roch Bolduc: My question is f'or the Leader of' the
Government ini tbe Senate. I received this morning the 1994-95
report of the Department of' Fisheries and Oceans.
Is it normal for Parliament to receive a departmental report
18 montbs after the end of the fiscal year? In your opinion, did
tbe minister responsible for tbis report tollow up as be sbould
bave donc?
[En glish]

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):

Could tbe leader explain wbat processes or factors are now
being considered wben preparing a decision to impose an
embargo against anotber country? Are tbere any otber countries
upon wbicb the goverfiment is contemplating tbe imposition of
sanctions or embargoes? What does the Minister of Foreign
Affairs mean when be states that be is looking at tbis matter very
carefully?

Honourable senators, I will certainly look into Senator Bolduc's
question.

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):

question raised in the Senate on May Il. 1995 by tbeHonourable
Senator Prud'homme regarding lobbyists involved in the
acquisition of suhmarines.

Honourable senators. I will be pleased to speak witb my
colleague the Minister of Foreign Affairs. As Senator

DELAYED ANSWER TO ORAL QUESTION
Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourable senators. 1 bave a response to a

SENATE DEBATES

November 28, 1995

DEFENCE
REASONS FOR ACQUISITION OF UPHOLDER CLASS

SUBMARINES-LOBBYISTS INVOLVED IN ACQUISITIONREQUEST FOR PARTICULARS
(Response to question raised by Hon. Marcel Prud'homme on
May, 11, 1995)
The proposal to acquire four Upholder class
diesel-electric submarines from the United Kingdom in
support of Canada's defence policy is currently being
considered by the Government. It will take a decision on the
merits of this proposal and in conjunction with the other
defence-related proposals that it is currently assessing. It has
communicated this position to the British government and
will complete any negotiations that may be necessary if it
decides to proceed with this project.

BILL CONCERNING KARLA HOMOLKA
POINT OF ORDER-SPEAKER'S RULING
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, I am prepared to
give my ruling on the admissibility of Bill S-l1, concerning
Karla Homolka.
On Thursday, October 19, when the order for second reading
of Bill S-1l, an act concerning one Karla Homolka, was called,
Senator Kinsella rose on a point of order. The purpose of his
point of order was to object to proceeding with the bill because,
in his view, the bill is not one that falls within the traditions,
customs and rules of this house.
[Translation]
In stating his case, the senator explained that there are only
two kinds of bills considered in our Parliament: these are either
public or private bills. Assessing the nature and scope of
Bill S-11, Senator Kinsella concluded that the bill is in the nature

of a bill of attainder falling into a special category of public bill
for which our practices do not provide.
[English]

To substantiate his position, Senator Kinsella referred to a
ruling made by the Speaker of our House of Commons in
May 1984 on a bill that had sought the execution of a specific
criminal. The Speaker determined that the bill was unacceptable.
Consequently, it is Senator Kinsella's opinion that:
...the matter contained in this bill is out of order and not
properly before this chamber.
Speaking on behalf of the bill, Senator Cools pointed out that
the bill is not, in fact, a bill of attainder but, rather, one of pains

2367

and penalties, and that our Parliament bas the power to enact
such bills. After describing the objective of such a bill to redress
an injustice and impose a suitable penalty to a terrible crime
when the courts have failed to exact one, Senator Cools went on
to explain that Parliament and its individual houses have the
power of judicature.
[Translation]

Senator Stewart then intervened to suggest that the procedural
issue for the Speaker to resolve was whether there might be "any
prohibition, as a matter of order, against this house, dealing with
a bill which is, in effect, retroactive in a criminal matter."
[English]
* (14S(>l

I wish to express my appreciation to the honourable senators
who participated in the discussion on this point of order. I have
read the arguments that were made on October 19 and I have
reviewed the authorities cited, as well as the precedent of 1984
that took place in the House of Commons. Before proceeding
with my ruling, I wish to make it clear that I am not commenting
in any way on the substance of the bill itself. My task is to
answer the point of order raised about the procedure on the
proceedings of the bill, not its content.
First, let me begin by saying that I agree with Senator Cools
that Bill S-l is of the nature of a bill of pains and penalties and
not a bill of attainder. The distinction between the two, as
I understand it, is that the penalty provided in the bill of attainder
is execution, whereas a bill of pains and penalties inflicts a lesser
punishment. Nonetheless, the special procedures that are
traditionally used in the consideration of either a bill of attainder
or a bill of pains and penalties are the same, and so the point of
order raised by Senator Kinsella is not affected by this
distinction.
The real issue to be decided is the objection of Senator
Kinsella that Bill S-1 l is a species of public bill that is not known
to our practice. Aside from the precedent of 1984, when a
member of the House of Commons sought to introduce a bill to
secure the execution of Clifford Olson, I am not aware of any
other similar bill of attainder or of pains and penalties presented
to our Parliament for consideration. As Senator Kinsella pointed
out, in 1984 the Speaker of the House of Commons ruled the bill
out of order. In his decision, the Speaker noted that the procedure
regarding bills of attainder or bills of pains and penalties had
been obsolete in Britain for many years, and that "it has never
existed in Canada."

In the absence of any precedents or of substantial evidence to
the contrary, I feel bound to take note of the provisions of rule 1
of the Rules of the Senate, which stipulates:

In all cases not provided for in these rules, the customs,
usages, forms and proceedings of either House of the
Parliament of Canada shall...be followed...

Accordingly. I accept the decision that was made by
Speaker of the House of Commons in 1984 and rule that,
similar reasons, Bill S-11 is out of order. The order for
second reading of this bill should be discharged and the
struck from the Order Paper.

the
for
the
bill

In conclusion, I might add that there are other means available
to Senator Cools to respond to public opinion brought to the
senator's attention, and she may wish to consider them.

ORDERS OF THE DAY
INTER-PARLIAMENTARY CONFERENCE
NINETY-FOURTH CONFERENCE HELD IN BUCHAREST ROMANIA

Hon. Peter Bosa rose pursuant to notice of Wednesday,
November 8, 1995:
That he will draw the attention of the Senate to the
94th Inter-Parliamentary Conference, held in Bucharest,
Romania, from October 7 to 14, 1995.
He said: Honourable senators, it is my privilege to present the
report of the Ninety-fourth Inter-Parliamentary Conference held
in Bucharest from October 7 to 14. I attended this conference in
company with my distinguished colleagues Senators Bacon and
Comeau, and with three other members of the House of
Commons: Ms Sue Barnes. Ms Brenda Chamberlain and
Mr. Derrick Wells.
Before speaking about the deliberations at the conference, I
should like to mention a few points about our host country. Since
1989, Romania has made considerable progress in moving
toward a more democratic and market-oriented system. The
current govemment coalition of Prime Minister Nicolae Vacaroiu
has been hampered by several votes of non-confidence which
have delayed the passing of additional political and economic
reforms. Much needed privatization is proceeding, though at a
slow pace.
Canadian parliamentarians observed the elections in May of
1990 and in September of 1992. Bilateral trade and political
consultations were held in November and December of 1992, and
in May of 1994 a memorandum on economic cooperation
between Canada and Romania was signed.
Romania is Canada's third largest trading partner in Eastern
Europe, after Russia and Poland. In 1993, Canada-Romania
two-way trade reached $85 million, and increased by 50 per cent
in 1994. Since 1989, Canadian companies have invested
over $60 million and set up over 400 joint ventures with
Romania.

The Canadian Technical Assistance Program for Romania
began in 1991. Since then, over $11 million has been disbursed
or committed to some 50 projects. The program has budgeted
expenditures of $3 million to $3.5 million for fiscal year
1994-95. Notable successes of the program include: the first full
MBA course delivered in Eastern Europe, the first loan guarantee
fund for small businesses established in Eastern Europe, and the
first stock market entirely established by Canada.
The Cernavoda nuclear plant is Canada's largest capital project
in the region. Since 1978, the plant has generated
nearly $500-million worth of Canadian exports to Romania. Last
year, AECL and the Romanian utility, RENEL, signed a
five-year lease for heavy water.
Our visit to Romania enabled us to learn more about the
transition process, and to sec at first hand developments in
Eastern Europe. October 1985 was a busy month for our
Romanian hosts, since the week following our conference the
Speaker of the Senate. the Honourable Gildas Molgat.
participated in an official visit.
I tum now to the conference itself. At the outset, I should like
to express our thanks and appreciation to the officials from
Foreign Affairs and International Trade Canada, the Canadian
International Development Agency, the Department of Justice
and the Office of the Ethics Counsellor who briefed our
delegation prior to our departure, as well as to the researchers in
the Library of Parliament who provided background papers.
I would also pay tribute to the Canadian Ambassador,
Mr. Gilles Duguay, and his colleagues for their assistance and
support during the conference. At the beginning of our work,
Mr. Duguay and other staff members provided a comprehensive
and informative briefing on Romania. Our ambassador also
hosted a reception during the conference at which we met some
Romanian business people who were interested in Canada.
Throughout the conference, Mr. Donald Banks, a counsellor,
assisted the delegation. We want to express our thanks and
appreciation for their hard work.
Before speaking about the topics on the agenda of the
conference, I want to refer briefly to the work of the women
parliamentarians at these inter-parliamentary conferences. During
the 1985 IPU conference in Ottawa, a decision was made that the
women delegates would meet prior to the opening session to
discuss matters of mutual interest, as well as ways of increasing
the participation of women parliamentarians within the union and
its various activities.
As part of its ongoing work to correct the imbalances in the
participation of men and women in political life, last year the
union decided to review the IPU's statutes and rules to ensure
that the vocabulary used could in no way be construed as
suggesting the superiority of one sex over the other. This task
was undertaken by a small working group composed of
representatives from one country whose language is English, one
country whose language is French. and two bilingual countries.

November 28, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

Canada agreed to be a member of this working group together
with Cameroon, India and Egypt.
The Canadian group worked extensively on this subject and
has submitted guidelines currently in use in Canada. In
Bucharest, our colleague Senator Bacon was elected as
chairperson of this working group. Throughout the week, she and
Ms Barnes worked on a text that was presented to the
Inter-Parliamentary Council. The adoption of the proposed text
will take place at the next Inter-Parliamentary Conference in
April 1996.

The first topic on the agenda of our conference was
"Parliamentary action to fight corruption and the need for
international commitments in this field." At this conference, we
were using a new format whereby the debate on the specific
subjects took place at committee meetings rather than in plenary.
Accordingly, Ms Barnes spoke on this subject in the Committee
on Parliamentary, Juridical and Human Rights Questions.

2369

their proposals. Votes were held on three subjects: the rights of
minorities, Jerusalem, and nuclear tests. "To comprehensively
ban nuclear weapons testing and halt all present nuclear weapons
tests" was the subject selected as the supplementary item. Our
colleague Senator Comeau represented Canada at these meetings
and spoke about the need for parliamentarians to request strongly
that a stop be put to nuclear testing.
There was also a plenary debate on "the general political,
economic and social situation in the world." I used this
opportunity to speak about land mines. On a couple of occasions
this subject had been proposed as a supplementary item but had
not been selected. This subject was especially timely, since the
first formal review of the Convention on Certain Conventional
Weapons was under way in Vienna. This meeting focused our
attention on the gravity of the problem, and the thousands of
innocent victims who die or are injured each year.

Fourteen countries, including Canada, submitted draft
resolutions for consideration. Canada was one of 12 countries
nominated to serve on a drafting committee. I am pleased to
report that Ms Barnes was selected chairperson. Most of the
Canadian draft resolution was included in the final text. I would
like to report that there was considerable interest in the
mechanisms developed by Canada to handle questions relating to
codes of conduct and conflict of interest, both by other delegates
and by the Romanian journalists.

I would also like to mention the report of the IPU Committee
on the Human Rights of Parliamentarians. As you are aware, the
Canadian group has been very active in the work of this
committee. Our colleague retired Senator Joan Neiman, who was
instrumental in its establishment, was a member for a number of
years. During the Bucharest conference, the violations of the
rights of 69 members or former members of Parliament in
12 countries were brought to the attention of the delegates.
The 69 cases involved one from Albania, one from Bulgaria,
five from Burundi, six from Cambodia, six from Colombia,
one from Honduras, one from Indonesia, two from Maldives,
17 from Myanmar, formerly Burma, seven from Nigeria,
three from Togo and 19 from Turkey.

The second topic on the agenda was "Strategies for effective
implementation of national and international commitments
adopted at the World Summit for Social Development in
Copenhagen." Again, the debate occurred at a meeting of the
Committee on Economic and Social Questions, where
Ms Chamberlain presented a joint statement on behalf of herself
and M. Wells. Canada was one of 19 countries that submitted a
draft resolution for consideration.

In conclusion, I want to speak briefly about the achievements
of the Inter-Parliamentary Union. Sometimes we wonder whether
the work at these conferences is significant and whether our
participation is worthwhile. The response of our Romanian
colleagues and their overwhelming enthusiasm for the support of
the union during the transition from a communist state to a
multi-party democracy reinforced my belief in the value of such
international gatherings.

At each conference, there is an opportunity to vote on a
supplementary item to be included on the agenda. Subjects are
selected because they are topical and of international concern.
This is one activity where the IPU carries out valuable work. An
examination of the voting patterns on those supplementary items
is a useful guide in plotting shifts in parliamentary attitudes and,
ultimately, policy decisions.

At the inaugural ceremony, the President of the Romanian
Senate, Mr. Olivu Gherman. expressed his appreciation for the
Inter-Parliamentary Union, noting that it was a "real school of
modem democracy" for Romanian parliamentarians. He said:
Many of the steps forward made by the Parliament of
Romania in the past few years are the fruit of our
participation in IPU activities and a consequence of the
constant support we have received.

Following our last IPU conference, I reported on the voting
patterns concerning the Iraqi proposal for a debate on lifting the
economic sanctions imposed on that country. At seven of the past
eight conferences, the Iraqi group has submitted this subject, and
the Bucharest conference was no exception. However, the Iraqi
group withdrew its proposal in favour of a proposal made by the
Arab group for a debate on the status of the Holy City of
Jerusalem.

This statement, made by a prominent Romanian
parliamentarian of an emerging democracy, speaks volumes
about the importance of the Inter-Parliamentary Union.

On this occasion, there were seven proposals for the
supplementary item, but several countries withdrew or combined

The Senate adjoumed until Wednesday, November 29, 1995 at
1:30 p.m.

The Hon. the Speaker: If no other honourable senator wishes
to speak, this inquiry is considered debated.

THE SENATE
Wednesday, November 29, 1995
The Senate met at 1:30 p.m.. the Speaker in the Chair.
Prayers.
[Translation]

SENATOR'S STATEMENT

TWENTY-FIFTH REPORT
Your Committee, to which was refcrred the Bill C-102,
An Act to amend the Customs Act and the Customs Tarifi
and to make related and consequential amendments to other
Acts. has, in obedience to the Order of Reference of
Thursday. November 2. 1995, examined the said Bill and
now reports the same without amendment.
Respectfully submitted.

LEGAL AND CONSTITUTIONAL AFFAIRS
SCHEDULE 0F WORK 0F THE COMMITTEERESPONSE 0F CHAIRMAN

Hon. Gérald-A. Beaudoin: Honourable senators. yesterday.
in response to a question from Senator Jean-Robert Gauthier
regarding the agenda of the Standing Committee on Legal and
Constitutional Affairs, I said that committee members were
currently reviewing Bis C-45 and C-7. That is what has already
been decided. We have a lot of work to do before the Christmas
break. We have given priority to these two bis.
As for Bis C-22 and C-69. I wish to make a correction: These
two bis are stili in committee for the reasons stated yesterday,
and a report is out of the question for now. As recently as hast
week, on Tuesday night. a majority of senators defeated a motion
to report on Bill C-69 by November 23.
As for Bill C-22, the experts who came to testify have ciearhy
established that the bill remains unconstitutional. In the absence
of new amendment proposais from the government. the bill is
stili in committee.
[En glish]

ROUTINE PROCEEDINGS
CUSTOMS ACT
CUSTOMS TARIFF
BILL TO AMEND-REPORT 0F COMMITTEE

MICHAEL KIRBY
Chairman

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourabke senators. when shahl this
bill be read the third time?
On motion of Senator Kirby, bill placed on the Orders of the
Day for third reading at the next sitting of the Senate.

ELECTORAL, BOUNDARIES
READJIJSTMENT BILL, 1995
NOTICE 0F MOTION TO INSTRUCT
LEGAI AND CONSTITUTIONAL COMMITTEE
TO TABLE FINAL REPORT

Hon. Sharon Carstairs: Honourable senators. pursuant 10
rule 58(1 )(f), I give notice that on Thursday next,
November 30. 1995, 1 wilI move:
That it be an instruction of this House to the Standing
Senate Committee on Legal and Constitutional Atfairs that
no hater than Monday. December hIL 1995 it prescrnt its final
report to the Senate on the Message from the House of
Commons, dated June 20, 1995 and on the motion of' the
Honourable Senator Graham dated June 28, 1995. regarding
Bill C-69, An Act to provide for the establishment of
electoral boundaries commissions and the readjustment of'
electoral boundaries. and
That in its report, the Committee recommend to the
Senate that it not insist on its amendments to which the
House of Commons has disagreed on June 20, 1995.
POINT 0F ORDER

Hon. Michael Kirby. Chairman of the Standing Senate
Committee on Banking. Trade and Commerce, presented the
following report:
Wednesday. Novembher 29. 199
The StandinL, Senate Couimiittce ou Baulkiine. Trade zud
Commerce lias thie honour to present ils

Hon. Orville H. Phillips: Honourable senators. I rise on a
point of order. We voted on this subject hast week. I believe that
the ruhes forhid a vote on the same subject twice in a session.
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators. I believe that
there is a difference between this particular motion and the on1e
of' Iast week. I wi Il attempt to ascertain that this s so. and 1
W Id ask that this matter he Icit iuntil latci this daN, so that 1 ean
ou
comîpare il to the specific motion of last v'eek. Is il agreedl

Noveber29, 995SENATE
DEBATES

November 29, 1995

Hon. Senators: Agreed.
AUDITOR GENERAL ACT
BILL TO AMEND

FIRST READING

The Hon. the Speaker informed the Senate that a message
had been received from the House of Commons with Bill C-83.
to amend the Auditor General Act.
Bill read first time.
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, when shahl this
bill be read the second time?
On motion of Senator Graham, bill phaced on the Orders of the
Day for second reading on Tuesday, December 5, 1995.
BRITISH COLUMBIA TREATY COMMISSION BILL
FIRST READING

The Hon. the Speaker informed the Senate that a message
had been received from the House of Commons with Bill C-107,
respecting the establishment of the British Columbia Treaty
Commission.
Bill read first time.
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, when shall this
bill be read the second time?

Auditor General requesting an investigation into the activities of
the Cornwallis Park Development Agency. Given that serlous
questions have been raised about the management of the agency,
or should 1 say the mismanagement of taxpayers' money at the
agency, and the recent allegations regarding the removal of assets
from the base, would the Leader of the Govemment in the Senate
consider lending her support to my colleague in his request for an
investigation?
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, I would prefer to await the Auditor
General's response to Senator Forrestali.
Senator Comneau: Honourable senators, given that there have
been delays due to certain questions, given the urgency that this
matter be resolved, and given the Prime Minister's promise
during the last election that the hase would not be closed. would
the honourable leader not consider it timely that this
investigation be conducted as quickly as possible so that the
agency can get on with providing jobs for the people of this
community who badly need jobs? By lending her support, 1
suggest that the investigation might be completed more quickly.
Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators, as we discussed in
Question Period a while back, there have been investigations
through ACOA. 1 have a great deal of confidence in the Auditor
General's position and judgment on issues of this nature. I would
prefer to await his response to my colleague's request.

On motion of Senator Graham, bill placed on the Orders of the
Day for second reading on Tuesday, December 5, 1995.

VISITORS IN THE GALLERY

CRIMINAL CODE

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, I wish to draw
your attention to some visitors in our gallery representing the
Arab Canadian Women's Association of Canada.

BILL TO AMEND

FIRST READING

Hon. Anne C. Cools presented Bill S-13. to amend the
Criminal Code of Canada (abuse of process).
Bill read first time.
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, when shahl this
bill be read the second time?
On motion of Senator Cools, bill placed on the Orders of the
Day for second reading on Tuesday, December 5, 1995.

QUESTION PERIOD
ATLANTIC CANADA OPPORTUNITIES AGENCY
CORNWALLIS PARK DEVELOPMENT AGENCYSUPPORT FOR INVESTIGATION BY AUDITOR GENERAL INTO
ALLEGATIONS 0F MISMANAGEMENT-GOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. Gerald J. Comeau: Honourable senators. as you mnay be
aware. my colheague Senator Forrestali had written to the

Hon. Senators: Hear, hear!
BUSINESS 0F THE SENATE
POINTS 0F ORDER
Hon. John Lynch-Staunton (Leader of the Opposition):
Honourable senators, before Orders of the Day are called, our
miles provide that points of order can only be raised following
Routine Proceedings. Nevertheless, the Speaker did accept that
Senator Phillips raise a point of order and that Senator Carstairs
reply to it during the proceedings.
However, we do not have a copy of Senator Carstairs' motion
before us. Our objection is based only on what we have heard.
We would want to discuss the point of order after we have seen
the text of her motion.
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators. 1 believe that
copies are being made, and wiIl be distributed.

FIREARMS BILL

Senator Lynch-Staunton: Before you come to a decision.
Your Honour, will you allow us to debate the point, at the
appropriate time today or tomorrow. once we have had a chance
to reflect on the significance of the motion?
The Hon. the Speaker: That is certainly in order. Normally
we ask for opinions on points of order. When the Speaker bas
heard enough opinions, he can either rule or take the matter
under advisement.
We had agreed that we would return to this matter later this
day. Once the hard copy of the motion has been distributed, we
will address the issue.

ORDERS OF THE DAY
AGRICULTURE AND AGRI-FOOD
ADMINISTRATIVE MONETARY PENALTIES BILL
THIRD READING

Hon. B. Alasdair Graham, Deputy Leader of the
Government moved the third reading of Bill C-61, to establish a
system of administrative monetary penalties for the enforcement
of the Canada Agricultural Products Act, the Feeds Act. the
Fertilizers Act, the Health of Animals Act, the Meat Inspection
Act, the Pest Control Products Act, the Plant Protection Act and
the Seeds Act.
Motion agreed to and bill read third time and passed.

AGRICULTURE AND FORESTRY
CONSIDERATION OF REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON FARM
SAFETY-DEBATE CONCLUDED

On the Order:
Resuming the debate on the consideration of the Ninth
Report of the Standing Senate Committee on Agriculture
and Forestry (special study of farm safety), tabled in the
Senate on Friday, June 30, 1995.-(Honourable Senator
Spivak).

Hon. Eric Arthur Berntson (Deputy Leader of the
Opposition): Honourable senators, on this particular item I have
consulted with both sides of the house. If no other senator wishes
to speak on this order. we could consider it debated.

Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): We are agreeable to that.
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators. is it agreed?

Hon. Senators: Agreed.

INQUIRY

Hon. Anne C.
November 23, 1995:

Cools

rose

pursuant

to

notice

of

That she will call the attention of the Senate to the speech
that she had intended to give on Wednesday, November 22,
1995, during debate on the motion of the Honourable
Senator Beaudoin, seconded by the Honourable Senator
Grimard, for the adoption of the sixteenth report of the
Standing Senate Committee on Legal and Constitutional
Affairs (Bill C-68. An act respecting firearms and other
weapons. with amendments) presented in the Senate on
Monday, November 20, 1995; the speech which she was
unable to give due to time limitations imposed by the Senate
Order concluding debate by 5:15 p.m. and votes at 5:30 p.m.
on Wednesday, November 22, 1995.
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, before Senator
Cools proceeds with this inquiry. I should like to put a statement
on the record.
I am somewhat troubled by the terms used by the honourable
senator in stating her inquiry. The notice makes it explicitly clear
that the speech which the senator intends to make was originally
to be given as part of the debate on the consideration of the
report of the Standing Senate Committee on Legal and
Constitutional Affairs respecting Bill C-68. By order of the
Senate, debate on this report and the third reading of the bill
concluded last Wednesday. and the matter has been decided by a
vote of the Senate.
My reservations about the terms of this inquiry stem mainly
from the long established practice mentioned in Beauchesne
6th Edition, at citations 479, 480(1) and (2). The citations make
it clear that:
479. A Member may not speak against or reflect upon any
determination of the House. unless intending to conclude
with a motion for rescinding it.
Then 480(1) says, in part:
...Members...cannot revive a debate already concluded...
nor should they refer to debates of the current session ...even if such reference is relevant, as it tends to reopen
matters already decided.
At the same time, I do not wish to unduly restrict the senator
from raising a matter which is important to her. I would suggest,
therefore, if the senator is agreeable. that she reconsider her
notice of inquiry and rephrase it in more general terms so as to
minimize any specific reference to the proceedings on Bill C-68.

November 29, 1995

November 29. 1995

SENATE DEBATES

SENATE DEBATES

Senator Cools: Honourable senators, I would be happy to
rephrase the inquiry. However, it was my clear understanding
that inquiries request no conclusion of the Senate; they are
largely instruments of exchange. Perhaps His Honour can suggest
for me a better articulation?
The Hon. the Speaker: I am afraid I could not do that now,
but I would be prepared to discuss the matter with the honourable
senator outside of the chamber.
The facts are that even an inquiry would be resuming debate
on an issue which has already been settled, and that is against the
rules.
Senator Cools: In any event, as I said before, if it is the wish
of the chamber that I rearticulate the inquiry, I will do that.
Senator Kinsella: Let us hear your speech.
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable Senator Cools, if you are
asking leave of the Senate to proceed in this way, of course, any
senator can do that. That is not for me to decide.
Are you asking for leave to proceed with the order as it is
structured?
Senator Cools: Yes.
The Hon. the Speaker: Is leave granted, honourable senators?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Senator Cools: Honourable senators, as I was about to say, the
intention of my inquiry today is to call attention to what I had
intended to say last week.
Honourable senators, spousal violence is an age-old problem.
Men and women connected by sexual relationships, upon the
breakdown of those relationships, are known to inflict hurt on
each other. Some even kill one another. Folk music is dotted with
examples. The famous folk song "Frankie and Johnny" relates an
experience of lovers and of lethal violence.
Frankie and Johnny were lovers,
Oh, Lordy, how they could love.
They swore to be true to each other...
Johnny went by, 'bout an hour ago,
With a girl named Nellie Blye...
Frankie got out at South Clark Street,
Looked in a window so high
Saw her Johnny man a-lovin' up
That high brown Nellie Blye...
But Frankie took aim with her pistol
And the gun went root-a-toot-toot.
He was her man, but he done her wrong.
She. Frankie. shot Johnny dead.
Honourable senators. the Minister of Justice, the Honourable
Allan Rock. holds that spousal and domestic violence is a major

2373
2373

reason for this initiative, Bill C-68. Mr. Rock told the Ontario
Women's Liberal Commission on April 12, 1995:
There are women who are at risk in their homes and
police didn't have the information or the tools to protect
them.
On other occasions, he has maintained that the firearms issue is a
women's issue. The Honourable Sheila Finestone, Secretary of
State for the Status of Women, agreed. In a news release of
December 6, 1994, Mrs. Finestone stated:
Firearms control is a life-and-death issue for women in
Canada.
Feminist groups repeatedly told the Standing Senate
Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs that women live
in a constant state of threat and fear of death inflicted by men
with firearms in their homes, and that children live in a constant
state of threat and fear of death inflicted by men with firearms in
their homes.
Honourable senators, domestic violence is insufficiently
understood. We are just now beginning to gain some
comprehension of the terrible tragedy of spousal violence.
Comprehension is also required of feminine aggression.
Family violence is deeply troubling. My life's work has been
in the area of spousal and family violence. In many relationships,
there are tangles of pathologies, coercive pattems and numerous
dynamics which reinforce one another.
Many gender feminists interchange the term "domestic
violence" with "domestic homicide." This is not a truc picture.
Most spousal violence will never reach the state of spousal
killing. The essential element that must be present if spousal
conflict is to become spousal homicide is murderous intent. I
have seen several relationships where murderous intent was
present. Often, couples do not recognize its presence, and have
no insight into its workings. Murderous intent is the key element.
When present, there is a probability that the situation could
escalate to spousal killing, but spousal abuse has no escalating
spectrum. A spousal slap does not inevitably become a spousal
homicide.
0

(1400)

Common spousal abuse is a different social problem from
spousal homicide. Spousal homicide remains a largely
misunderstood and tragic social program. Some bold initiatives
are required to probe the darkness that lurks in violence, sexual
interaction and impulses to hurt and to kill.
Honourable senators, I am disquieted that much testimony
before the Senate committee was either incorrect, inadequate,
misstated, manipulated, exaggerated or loaded as a gender issue.
Some confounded the issues. Their techniques include playing
with percentages and combining the unrelated, and are obvious
to those knowledgeable in the field.
Honourable senators, various feminist groups appeared before
the committee to support Bill C-68. Ms Arlene Chapman of the
Alberta Council of Women's Shelters insisted that:

Almost half of the women killed by their husbands are shot.
Ms Jill Hightower of the B.C. Institute on Family Violence
stated that:
Front-line transition house staff report that women are
frequently threatened by their partners, and many of these
threats involve firearms.
Ms Virginia Fisher of the Provincial Association of Transition
Houses Saskatchewan said that "...46 per cent of women killed
by their husbands are killed with guns" and that, "There are
50,000 women living in households with guns who feel their
lives to be in danger."
When asked about the number of women served by them who
have been killed by husbands using firearms, they declined to
give numbers. stating such reasons as, "I do not have that figure
off the top of my head" or "We do not have funding to do
follow-up work on what happens to women after they leave the
shelter." These individuals never supply hard, precise or accurate
data to support their assertions because supporting data does not
exist.
Further, most of these individuals know little about spousal
homicide. Spousal homicide is a terrible occurrence, the
understanding and treatment of which eludes most agencies and
helping professionals. Moreover, the data collection mechanism
at many shelters is indeed questionable. since many shelters view
data collection and research compilation as male-dominated
preoccupations. Many gender feminists are resistant to scientific
inquiry and investigation. Moreover, imagination and fantasy
have resulted in profit and lucrativeness, rather than reason.
Some gender feminists told the Senate committee that children
are at risk of abuse with firearms in the home. I note that among
the numerous witnesses before the committee, there was not one
witness from child protection agencies or children's aid societies.
I spoke to child protection agency officials in Toronto. Metro
Toronto's Children's Aid Society, the largest children's aid
society in Canada, informed me that they have no concern that
children in Metro Toronto are at risk of abuse with firearms in
the home. I spoke to executive director Bruce Rivers. If children
were at risk, child protection agencies would have been active in
appearing before the Senate committee.
I also observed that not a single witness appeared from
community crime prevention agencies in Toronto, and I also note
that not one witness was black. The illicit use of firearms by
certain black criminals in Toronto is commanding attention and
intervention.
The frolics and caprices with data and statistics were revealed
when one particular witness, Dr. Katherine Leonard. gave
testimony stretching credulity and scientific inquiry. On
conclusion of her testimony, another witness, Dr. Judith Ross,
herself a psychologist and a target shooter, overheard
Dr. Leonard say to someone. "How did you like the science
fiction?" Dr. Ross. on September 27. 1995. wrote to me as
follows:

I Senatoi Cools

I

I find it appalling and disgraceful that a witness at a Senate
committee would knowingly present material that was a
fiction cloaked in a pretence of scientific validity.
I read Dr. Leonard's testimony. I pondered about the reliance
on such testimony by any minister of the Crown.
Honourable senators, certain gender feminists insist that
firearms are a gender issue: that firearms are a vehicle for male
violence and aggression. Central to the belief system of radical
gender feminism is the maxim that firearms constitute the phallic
symbol of male violence, and are symbols of the patriarchal
society. In a patriarchal and heterosexist society, the allowance of
guns is a sign of misogyny.
Honourable senators, this is patriarchal nonsense; it is
patriarchal rubbish, and supports the notion that women should
live in fear and trembling, not only of men but of men's
instruments - guns. Needless to say, they view heterosexuality
as an oppressive state for women.
Gender feminist theory is an example of intellectual
fraudulence and is a theory based on philogyny. tribadism and
misandry. This theory currently stalks the social and political life
of this country. It is predatory, and seeks to dominate and
terrorize. It is a personality disorder in the body politic of this
nation.
During the Senate committee hearings on Bill C-68, the
Manitoba Attorney General, the Honourable Rosemary Vodrey,
testified. I asked her:
I should just like to know how many wives were killed by
husbands in your province last year by firearms, and how
many children in your province alone?
She replied:
I can just tell you women on homicides by firearms. I gather
the figure is zero.
Ms Vodrey gave more detail. She said:
The statistics I have are for 1994, and they relate to deaths
due to domestic violence: Three by stabbing; three by
strangulation; two by beating; one by asphyxiation; none by
firearms.
Honourable senators, it is no simple task to identify the actual
and precise number of women killed by spouses using firearms. I
have studied this question using Statistics Canada's published
data on homicides. In 1994, the actual number of women killed
with firearms by conjugal intimates was 23. I repeat: The precise
number of women killed by spouses using firearms was 23.
Statistics Canada defines "conjugal intimates" as including
spouses - legal, common-law. separated. divorced boyfriends, extramarital lovers or estranged lovers. Neither
feminist groups nor the Minister of Justice have placed the
number of 23 on the table in this debate. I am unsympathetic to
the act of toying with or exaggerating the true numbers.

November 29, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

Please be clear that Minister Vodrey's answer that no woman
in her province had been killed by the use of a firearm in a
conjugal-intimate relationship in 1994 surprised the committee.
In 1994, the actual number of children under the age of
12 years killed with firearms by a parent was two. The favoured
weapon of murder in Canada is bare hands and feet - the human
body. For example, in 1994, 27 babies under 12 months of age
were killed, most with bare hands. In 1994, the total number of
homicides was 596, of which 196 were by the use of firearms. Of
these 196 with firearms, 157 of the victims were men and
39 were women. Consistently, more men are killed with firearms
than women; in fact, four times as many. The tragedy of
domestic homicide is too horrific to be trivialized by numerical
manipulation.
Honourable senators, in the murders of three teenaged girls in
Toronto, Karla Homolka and Paul Bernardo used their hands, the
favoured weapon of murder. The brutal absurdity of this
discussion was made manifest at the Homolka trial. The Crown
and the judge significantly forgave Ms Homolka in relation to
two murders, and totally forgave her in relation to her sister's
murder, and gave her a 12-year sentence. As part of her 12-year
sentence for killing with her hands. Mr. Justice Kovacs imposed
an order prohibiting Homolka from possessing a firearm.
0 (1410)

Honourable senators, time does not permit me to speak to the
extraordinary measures of this bill. Millions of men and women
in this country come from cultural backgrounds of hunting, target
practice, marksmanship and precision shooting. This heritage of
marksmanship is a Canadian phenomenon. Young people leamed
from their parents how to shoot as part of their heritage. Canada's
World War I hero, Billy Bishop, learned to shoot as a boy in
Owen Sound, Ontario, with a rifle given to him for Christmas by
his father. It is a similar situation for young women. Linda Thom,
at age 8, learned to shoot with her father. She won a gold medal
in the 1984 Olympic Games. In gun sports, men and women
compete as equals. There is even a group of women shooters
called the "Gun Grannies."
Canada's heritage of marksmanship and mastery of the
instruments of force is legendary. In 1914 and in 1939, the
Canadian military met its responsibility. The marksmanship
training of many Canadians by various rifle and gun associations
assisted Canada's wartime efforts. A proud example is the
Dominion of Canada Rifle Association, founded in 1868, which
has trained generations of Canadians in the responsible use and
care of firearms. Canadians consistently win international
competitions.
Those who engage in the recreational and economic use of
firearms are persons who are law-abiding citizens, who abhor the
illegal and illicit use of firearms. They see that crime and the
illegal use of firearms bedevils Canada's big cities, especially
Toronto. In Toronto, aggressive and successful initiatives are
required in the area of crime prevention, including initiatives in
law enforcement, criminal judicial processes, plea bargaining,

2375

sentencing and, most important, in race relations, to solve
Toronto's enormous crime problems.
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable Senator Cools, I am sorry
to interrupt, but your time has expired.
Senator Cools: Honourable senators, I need exactly one
minute or so to complete my remarks. I would be happy to have
leave to continue.
The Hon. the Speaker: Is leave granted, honourable senators?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Senator Cools: These law-abiding citizens feel violated when
they are likened to criminals because of the mere possession of
their firearms or, worse, they are criminalized. Moreover, they
resist the persistent invasiveness of governments into their lives.
In fact, they view the government's initiative, Bill C-68, as
creating a thought process which some will promote as the new
Canadian morality: to wit, firearms are inherently evil and so are
their owners.
I note how conveniently this concept falls into the gender
feminists' maxim that men are harmful to women, and that all
firearms are symptomatic of this harmfulness and should be
discouraged and, ultimately, destroyed. Legitimate gun owners
believe that when firearms are outlawed by governments, only
outlaws will have firearms.
Honourable senators, gender feminist theory based on the
innate evil of men and the innate virtue of women is seriously
flawed. Social policy based on flawed theory is flawed social
policy. Legislation based on flawed social policy is flawed
legislation.
The Minister of Justice as a minister of the Crown, is no
ordinary minister. This minister has a duty to be less worldly and
less obviously political than other ministers. The Minister of
Justice also bas a duty to find accommodation among disparate
interests.

Honourable senators, I am a senator from Ontario, the former
Upper Canada. In the early 1800s in Upper Canada, there was
something that was locally known as "stump law." Stump law
was legislation passed by the then Tory government as a
compound of arrogance and force. Liberal reformer members
like Dr. William Baldwin were brutalized by the use of such
legislative power. Bill C-68 is reminiscent of old Upper
Canadian stump law.
I hope my Inuit colleagues, Senators Willie Adams and
Charlie Watt, are not too damaged. I hope my support of their
just cause has brought them a measure of comfort.
The proposition that Bill C-68 addresses the problem of
domestic violence, that it is a bill to protect women, is not
supported by the information put before the Senate. The premise
and foundation for Bill C-68, we are told, is the good of women.
Those who attempt to demonstrate this do so insufficiently. In
fact, the research points in a different direction.

Honourable senators, I reject tbe premise tbat firearms
ownership and use is a womenls issue. Tbis bill is begging for
amendment. Since my side wilI accept no amendments, I am
prepared to support tbe amendments to Bill C-68 as put forward
in tbe committee's report. and by Senator Sparrow.
Honourable senators. tbat was tbe speecb I bad prepared and
was quite ready. willing and able to deliver last week. I tbank you
for your indulgence, and for tbe opportunity to bave made my
speecb. For myself. 1 would bave found it somewbat
discomfiting and a littie disquieting flot to bave had tbe
opportunity to give my speech, to tbe extent tbat I bad put time
and trouble into composing it.

consequently. the rules were not respected. 1 urge His Honour to
rule witb that in mind.
Hon. Noël A. Kinsella: Honourable senators, 1 wish to follow
through on wbat Senator Lyncb-Staunton bas said. while flot
wishing to detract from the points be bas made, which 1 think are
sufficient to dispose of the matter at this point. However. should
His Honour wish to hear some arguments concerning the
propriety of the order, and wbetber or not there is any respectful
order in the motion brougbt forward by Senator Carstairs, 1 wisb
to draw the attention of bonourable senators to rule 63 of the
Rides of tire Senate. Rule 63(l) provides:
A motion shail not be made whicb is the same in
substance as any question wbicb. during the same session.
bas been resolved in the affirmative or negative. unless the
order. resolution, or other decision on such question bas
been rescinded as bereinafter provided.

1 sbould also like to say. bonourable senators. tbat I look
forward to an opportunity wben I can rise and speak
uninterrupted in tbe Senate. It seems to be a very difficult
proposition for me to do so in tbis cbamber.
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators. if no otber
senator wisbes to speak. tbis inquiry is considered debated.
ELECTORAL BOUNDARIES
READJUSTMENT BILL, 1995
NOTICE 0F MOTION TO JNSTRUCT LEGAL AND CONSTITUTIONAL
AFFAIRS COMMITTEE TO TABLE FINAL REPORT-POINT 0F ORDER

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators. before we
proceed to tbe adjourniment motion. wbicb is tbe next item. 1 am
prepared to consider any advice tbat bonourable senators can
give me considering tbe point of order raised by tbe H-onourable
Senator Pbillips on tbe motion proposed by tbe Honourable
Senator Carstairs.
Hon. John Lynch-Staunton (Leader of the Opposition):
Honourable senators, we bave a number of valid objections to
tbis motion being placed on tbe Order Paper. First. Senator
Carstairs introduced it under tbe rubric "Government Notices ot
Motion." If we bave any respect for tbe rules, it is tbat we follow
in order. and respect tbe significance of' tbe beadings witbin
Routine Procedings. The only senators wbo can introduce
motions under tbe rubric "Government Notices of Motion" are
tbe Leader of tbe Govemment in tbe Senate, tbe Deputy Leader
of tbe Government. or one of tbeir designated replacements
wbose name is known to tbe Senate before proceedings begin.
For tbat reason alone. 1 urge tbe Speaker to declare tbis motion
out of order.
It may seem a trivial. tecbnical argument, but tbe success of
our deliberations is impossible witbout a respect for tbe rules. If
tbis motion is accepted tben it means tbat. at any time. any
bonourable senator can get up under any cbapter beading and
suggest anytbing tbat be or sbè wants.
I support tbe point of order on tbe fact tbat tbe notice of
motion was presented under tbe wrong cbapter beading. and

[Senaioi. Cool'. 1

Honourable senators, wbat follows next is very telling.
Rule 63(2) says. in effect. tbat yes. a cbamber may rescind a
decision tbat it bad taken previously, but tbe test tbat must be met
to do tbe extraordinary - tbat is. to rescind a decision that bad
already been taken - requires at Ieast two-tbirds of tbe senators
present to vote in tavour of tbe decision to rescind a motion tbat
bad been previously passed.
0

(1420)

Tbe rule 1 just read is flot arbitrary. It speaks directly to tbe
question of tbe sanctity of a deliberate decision of tbe cbamber.
Tbat decision. once taken witbin a Parliament. cannol be
rescinded arbitrarily. or on a wbim. It requires tbat a very beavy
test be met. Two-tbirds of tbe senators presenit must agree to
rescind.
Tbis speaks a bit to, tbe extraordinary argument made by tbe
leader of tbe Reform Party in tbe otber place during tbe
referendum last October. He argued tbat ail you needed was
50 per cent plus one to break up the country. Wbat an
extraordinary. distorted view of democracy and tbe sanctity of
tbe parliamentary system. It operates on deliberation in tbe
ordinary course of events, sucb as we bave bere wbere tbe
decision was made. However. if you are tben to rescind or do
sometbing extraordinary, you must meet a mucb more serious
test.
If the government side is serious about proposing tbat ibis
cbamber rescind a decision that it bad already taken. tben tbe test
tbat is provided for in rule 63(2) comes into play.
No doubt His Honour will take guidance trom tbe procedural
literature. Erskine May, at page 326, speaks to matters already
decided during tbe same session and to tbe fact that a motion or
an amendment. wbich is the same in substance as a question
wbicb has been decided during a session, may flot be brougbt
lorward again during tbe same session. Tbe same position is
articulated in Beaucbesne at page 172, paragrapb 558. On
page 178, tbere is anotber reference.

November 29, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

2377

This is a serious matter, as I have attempted to underscore. The
procedural literature on this matter leans to the side of caution on
this matter, to not allowing this motion. There is not much of a
question to be explicated or explored in terms of whether or not
the substance of this motion is substantially the same or different
from that which was decided by the house a few days ago. I think
it is a prima facie case, and that it is the same, by the plain
language in which the motion is couched.

individual senator, who may or may not be a member of that
committee, can instruct the committee what to write? Therefore,

I urge His Honour to accept the point of order that has been
raised, and to rule this motion out of order.

Hon. John B. Stewart: Honourable senators, I had not
planned to intervene on this discussion, but a point just made by

Hon. Sharon Carstairs: Honourable senators, I wish to
address the three issues raised by the honourable senators on the
other side.
First, Senator Lynch-Staunton raised the question of whether a
member other than the leader or deputy leader could indeed
introduce such a motion under Government Motions. It is very
clear that I am a govemment member of this chamber.
Senator Berntson: You are a supporter, not a member.
Senator Carstairs: In addition, I have been the sponsor of
Bill C-69 and first addressed it in this chamber at second reading.
Second, I would argue that this motion is, indeed, substantially
different because, in its second paragraph, it orders the
committee to report back without amendments. That is very
different from the original motion proposed earlier in this
chamber.
Third, it is clear that rule 63(1) and (2), which I have read
carefully, refer to substantive motions. This is a procedural
motion, clearly. asking for a committee of this chamber to report.
It does not, quite frankly, affect anything of a substantive nature,
other than the report of a committee. It is procedural in the same
way that a motion to adjourn is procedural, and that can be done
every single day in this chamber.
Hon. Orville H. Phillips: Honourable senators, I checked the
original motion in the Debates of the Senate. The only difference
in the wording is that it states that the committee will report no
later than Monday, December 11. Everything else in that part of
the motion is identical to the one we voted on last Tuesday.
Senator Carstairs has stated that this motion gives instruction
to the committee. I question whether the Senate has the authority
to direct the committee on how it should report.
In making your decision, Your Honour, I ask you to look up a
decision made by His Honour Jean-Paul Deschatelets. I
remember well that decision because I moved the motion, and it
was seconded by the Honourable Senator Grosart. His ruling is to
the effect that the Senate cannot instruct a committee.

it is completely against our normal procedure.
Our committee reports are made up by the members of the

committee in committee sessions, not in this chamber. They
report to the chamber. The chamber does not instruct the
committee what to report.

Senator Phillips seems to me to be so wrong that one feels

compelled to rise to refute it.
Senator Phillips is advancing the proposition that the Senate,
once having referred a matter to a committee, abandons any right

to attempt to retrieve that matter.
Senator Murray: No, he is referring to the content, to the
second part of the motion.
Senator Oison: That is why Senator Phillips is wrong.
An Hon. Senator: Pay attention!
Senator Stewart: There are two things running together here.
One relates to the view, implied by Senator Phillips today and put
forward previously by Senator Beaudoin, that a committee,
having decided that the content of a bill is unconstitutional, has
the right to pigeon-hole that bill. That device used to be used perhaps is still used - in Washington. D.C., and it is deplored by
all so-called parliamentarians. I hope that we will not go that

route.
0

(1430)

Surely when the Senate has ordered a committee to examine a
bill that the Senate wishes to amend, the Senate can follow the
practice which is used continuously at Westminster, and even in
Ottawa; that being rather than attempting to change the bill at
third reading, instructing the committee to make that change.
I do not remember the precedent to which Senator Phillips has
referred, but if there is such a precedent, we should not follow it
because it will take us down a path which I think is procedurally
quite dangerous.
Hon. Lowell Murray: Honourable senators, what follows
may not help Your Honour reach a resolution of this matter, but I
cannot help but comment on the statement that Senator Stewart
has made objecting to the idea that a committee could, as he put
it, "pigeon-hole" a bill.

This is an instruction to the committee. What would be the

In a previous Parliament, there was at least one example that
springs readily to mind in which a committee pigeon-holed a bill
for far less substantive reasons than that it posed constitutional
problems. The bill had been passed by the House of Commons

purpose of having a committee do a study if a motion hy an

and related solely to that body in that it dealt with the pay and

perks of committee chairmen. It camne to this chamber. was sent
to committee and when I. in my usual mild way. protestcd about
the lack of progress by the committee, I was told, plain and
plumb by the then Leader of the Opposition. Senator
MacEachen, that I would not see that bill again at any time, that
it would stay in committee because the opposition objected to its
content.
As I say, that is no help to Youi Honour in reaching your
decision on this matter, but 1 thouglit 1 shouhd place it on the
record lest Senator Stewart's version of what the proprieties are
go unchallenged.
Senator Stewart: Honourable senators, I must say that it is
surprising to discover that one statement by Senator MacEachen
is sufficient to make Senator Murray change his mmnd.

Senator Doody: They are both Cape Bretoners, you know!
Senator Lynch-Staunton: I am sure that Senator Carstairs is
not the only one who aspires to being Leader of the Government
in the Senate.
Senator Kinsella: It is that obvious.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: To declare that she is a
representative of the government is. unfortunately. not
recognized by our rules. She is a supporter of the government.
There is only one representative of the Govemnment of Canada in
this chamber, and she happens to be the Leader of the
Government in the Senate. There is no other representative of the
governiment in this chamber. There are many who aspire to
becoming so.
Senator Phillips: Watch your back, Senator Fairbairn!
Senator Lynch-Staunton: Only the Leader of the
Government. or her delegate in her absence and in the absence of
the deputy leader, can move under the rubric "Government
Notices of Motions.
Second. to have the gaîl not only to ask the committee to
report, but also te, instruct it what to report. demeans the whole
committee system of the Senate.

Senator Stewart: That is the substance of the motion now.
Senator Berntson: They are just puppets!
Senator Lynch-Staunton: If the report is unacceptable when
it comes to the chamber. it can be amended. However, if we tel]
the committee ahead of time, "This is what we want you to say.l'
we might as well look again at the value of' the committee
system. Presently. in oui- eyes, it is such that we have a lot of
respect for it. That is another reason why we feel this motion
should be declared out of order.

Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourable senators. there may well be a valid
point with respect to the point that the Leader of the Opposition

1Senatii

N1uiiaN

has raised with regard to the individual senator who put forth this
motion. That is a matter of judgment and certainly one. 1 believe.
of tlexibility in this chamber, given the way we have operated.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: No. It is a i-ulc.
Senator Graham: Both sides of the house have allowed
debates to proceed. We have reverted to previous orders on the
Order Paper with unanimous consent. It might very well be that.
if His Honour ruied in favour of the point raised by the Leader of
the Opposition - that it was out of order for Senator Carstairs to
give a notice of motion on behaif of the government, even
though shre was the sponsor of the bill - we could ask f'or
permission for leave to revert so the Honourable Leader of the
Govemment or the deputy leader could put the motion.

Senator Lynch-Staunton: That's night.
Senator Graham: In considering your decision and possible
precedents, Your Honour, 1 ask you to note that on
September 3. 1987, there was a motion in amendment concerning
Bill C-22. We aIl remember, those of us who were here, the drug
patent legislation. That motion deait with an instruction to a
committee and was defeated. 1 refer honourable senators to
page 1801 of the Debates of tire Senate. Septembher 3, 1987.
As well. honourable senators. on September 15, 1987. another
motion was moved on the same bill. Even though obýjections
were raised that the Senate had made a decision several days
earlier. it was put to a vote because it was different. It was more
limited in scope than the earlier motion.
Senator Berntson: This one is not.
Senator Graham: Indeed, honourahle senators. this motion is
more substantive and expansive.

Senator Doody: It is totally procedural.
Senator Graham: It is more substantive and certainly
different from the original motion.
Senator Berntson: It is identical.
Senator Graham: 1 submit. honourable senators. that the
motion is in order.
Senatnr Lynch-Staunton: Honourable senators. 1 should like
te, make a clarification on our concerni with respect to the rules.
The tabling of documents cannot take place under "Introduction
and First Reading of Government Bills.The first reading of'
Comnmons public buis cannot take place under "Inquiries."
Petitions cannot be introduced under "Delayed Answers.' We
have a set, standard formi of proceeding prior to the Orders of the
Day. That must be respected. If an honourable senator can rise
under Government Notices of' Motions and miove any type of'
motion. that interpretation of' the rules would mean. then. that
under "Introduction and First Reading of Govemment Bills." 1
cari present a petition.

November 29, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

Senator Doody: Anarchy.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: The least we can ask is a respect
for Routine Proceedings, which is a tradition in Parliament. The
Rules of the Senate must be respected.
[Translation]

Hon. Marcel Prud'homme: Honourable senators, this bill is a
never-ending story. We know that the longer we wait, the greater
the administrative nightmare will be during the next federal
elections. The Chief Electoral Officer has said that waffling
between two pieces of legisiation was quite unacceptable if we
really want to have an election system which is the envy of the
whole world.
Your Honour, I do not understand the motion. You will explain
it in your ruling, which will undoubtedly be very wise, and I will
abide by your ruling.
I do not understand how we can tell a committee what it is
supposed to report. Each political party, be it Conservative or
Liberal, can give its members on the committee instructions
regarding policy. Should the motion be adopted, the committee
will report on its conclusions. Even though I do not sit on any
committee, I always attend the meetings of some committees,
including this one. I would find it absurd to be given prior
instructions, to be told what to do at a committee meeting.
In its wisdom, the Senate has delegated its authority to a
Senate committee. It is up to the committee to decide what it
wants to report to the Senate.
I am trying to understand the logic of a Senate commission at
this time. Why should we have a Senate committee if it is told
ahead of time what its conclusions should be?
We understand the politics behind this motion. I sympathize
with members of Parliament who say they are losing their riding;
others claim that this piece of legislation is not the business of
the Senate.
I did not get involved last time, but I can tell you that if this
bill is again referred to the Senate, I will take part in the debate.
I find it ludicrous for members of Parliament to hold such views
about the senator who, after ail, have a constitutional right.
When I was a member of the House of Commons, I used to
defend the Senate, even before I knew I might be appointed here.
There have been some very acrimonious debates between the
Senate and the House. I submit, honourable senators, that this
motion is quite out of order.
The Hon. the Speaker: I find you are speaking to the content
of the bill and not to the point of order that was raised.
Senator Prud'homme: With regard to these few
considerations, honourable senators, I submit that the question

2379

has been debated during this session. A decision has been made,
and a vote has been taken. According to old British traditions,
once a matter has been resolved, it cannot be raised over and
over again until one catches people at fault because they are not
present in the Senate. The question was examined at length and a
vote was duly taken on it.
Unfortunately, it is true that, for ail sorts of reasons, some
senators were not present at the time of the vote.
We can only wait until the next session of Parliament to study
another bill.
Meanwhile, I think that we would place the Chair in an
awkward position if we were to ask for reconsideration of an
issue which bas been decided upon.
[English]
0

(1440)

Senator Graham: Honourable senators, in a moment I will
ask leave to revert to Govemment Notices of Motion Senator Berntson: Do not embarrass yourself!
Senator Phillips: Forget it!
Senator Graham: properly given.

so that the notice of motion can be

Senator Doody: So you concede that it has been improperly
given?
Senator Graham: Honourable senators, may I then have
leave to revert to Govemment Notices of Motion?
The Hon. the Speaker: I regret that I cannot entertain the
request at this time. There is a point of order before the Senate on
that matter, and I must first deal with that point of order.
Are there any other senators who wish to speak to the point of
order? If no other senator wishes to speak, I wish to look more
closely at the references which have been made to parliamentary
authorities and precedents both in the other bouse and here. I will
take the matter under advisement.
Senator Murray: I take it that when Senator Graham intended
to ask for leave, he was conceding the first part of Senator
Lynch-Staunton's point of order?
The Hon. the Speaker: I did not hear the comments.
Senator Carstairs: Honourable senators, there appears to be
some concern that I introduced this matter under the wrong
heading. For that, I apologize. That was the information I was
given as to the appropriate timing. In order to facilitate the
proper reintroduction of the motion by the deputy leader, I will
withdraw my motion.

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators. is leave

Government). for Senator Kirby. pursuant to notice of'
November 28. 1995, moved:

granted?

Some Hon. Senators: No.
The Hou. the Speaker: 1 regret that the motion cannot be
withdrawn.

Senator Prud'homme: It is flot our decision.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: Cet your act together!
Senator Kinsella: Who runs the Senate of Canada?
BANKING, TRADE AND COMMERCE
STATE 0F CANADIAN FINANCIAL SYSTEMCONM WVEE AUTHORIZED TO EXTEND DATE
0F PRESENTATION 0F FINAL REPORT

Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the

That, notwithstanding the order of reference adopted by
the Senate on Wednesday. November 30, 1994. the Standing
Senate Committee on Banking, Trade and Commerce.
which was authorized teo examine the prescrnt state of the
financial system in Canada. be ernpowered to present its
final report no later than Tuesday, December 10, 1996: and
That, notwithstanding usual practices, if the Senate is not
sitting when an interim report of' the Committee is
completed. the Committee shall deposit its report with the
Clerk of the Senate. and said report shall thereupon be
deemed to have been tabled in the Chamber.
Motion agreed to.
The Senate aqîourned until tomorrow ai 2 p.m.

2381

THE SENATE
Thursday, November 30, 1995
The Senate met at 2:00 p.m., the Speaker in the Chair.
Prayers.

SENATOR'S STATEMENT
MEMBER 0F THE GOVERNMENT
DEFINITION

Hon. Sharon Carstairs: Honourable senators, yesterday 1was
somewhat surprised at the offence taken by Senator
Lynch-Staunton to my use of the terni "government member."
Recause I love words and their very usage, last evening 1 had a
wonderful time reviewing old political science texts and
dictionaries to refamiliarize myseif with the definitions of these
words. My stucly confirmed that the termis are indeed used in a
variety of ways.
First, my study told me that the word "goveriment" can be
used in a generic manner to refer to a kind of govemrment. For
example, it could be a democratic government, a presidential
style of govemnment, a parliamentary system of govemnment, or a
republican formi of govemrment. Thus, we have the generic use of
the word.
The second reference I found said that the word "govemment"
refers to a collection of individuals, elected or appointed, who
have the majority of seats in a parliament or legisiature. They
gather together into a caucus for the purpose of discussion and
development, and support the initiatives of the executive branch.
1 found references to such terms as "government members,"
"government backbenchers," and "the govemrment side of the
chamber." The counterparts, of course, to those expressions were
"opposition members" or "the opposition side of the chamber."
Sometimes I found references to third parties, fourth parties, and
even fifth parties, depending on the distribution of seats, and also
the termi "independent member".
"Govemment" can obviously mean a member of a legislative
hody that supports the government or one who is a member of
the govemning party, and that was the context in which 1 referred
to myseif yesterday.
The third definition of "government," and the narrowest one of
aIl, is in the Canadian concept which refers to the executive
branch of our system, the cabinet. These are the individuals
assigned specific executive authority and administrative
funictions. The govemment in this sense is ably represented in
this house by Senator Fairbairn who, as Leader of the
Government in the Senate, also has responsibility for literacy.
Her titie is an interesting one. As Leader of the Govemment in
the Senate. she leads government members, of which 1 arn proud

to be one. Perhaps Senator Lynch-Staunton thinks she leads ail of
us, but 1 think he perhaps would not accept that suggestion.
Senator Lynch-Staunton may not use the termi "government
member" to refer to a member of Parliament who is not in the
cabinet. However, let me assure him that it is used often - and
frequently in my Province of Manitoba - by goverument
members, opposition members, and members of the media.
If Senator Lynch-Staunton could refer me to the correct usage
of the termi "government" in this chamber, I would appreciate it.
I am deeply committed to the principle of life-long learning, and
I always welcome an opportunity to expand my knowledge.

ROUTINE PROCEEDINGS
ELECTORAL BOUNDARIES
READJUSTMENT BILL, 1995
NOTICE 0F MOTION TO INSTRUCT COMMITTEE
ON LEGAL AND) CONSTITUTIONAL AFFAIRS
TO TABLE FINAL REPORT-POINT 0F ORDER
On the Order:

That it be an instruction of this House to the Standing
Senate Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs that
no later than Monday, December 11, 1995, it present its
final report to the Senate on the Message from the House of
Commons, dated June 20, 1995, and on the motion of the
Honourable Senator Graham dated June 28, 1995, regarding
Bill C-69, An Act to provide for the establishment of
electoral boundaries commissions and the readjustment of
electoral boundaries.
That in its report, the Committee recommend to
the Senate that it not insist on its amendments to which
the House of Commons disagreed on June 20, 1995. (Speakersý Ruling)

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, under this item,
"Government Notices of Motions," yesterday a point of order
was raised on a motion by Honourable Senator Carstairs. I am
ready with the ruling, but there is the matter of having it typed up
and translated. I would ask that I be allowed to bring this matter
back later this day, provided I get my typewritten and translated
report on time.
Is it agreed, honourable senators?
Hon. Senators: Agreed

ADJOURNMENT
Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourable senators. with leave of the Senate.

a highly speculative piece of paper put together by someone in
that department, and had nothing to do with the minister or
anyone at the political level. Indeed, 1 would say its contents
were flot only naive. but very disrespectful of aboriginal peoples.

and notwithstanding rule 58(l)(h), I miove:
That when the Senate adjourns today. it do stand
adjourned until Tuesday next. December 5. 1995. at
two o'clock in the aftemoon.

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators. is leave
granted'?

Hon. Senators: Agreed.

PRESENCE 0F ABORIGINAL PEOPLES AT QUEBEC
ROUND GOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. Charlie Watt: Honourable senators. will the aboriginal
peoples of this country be involved in the next round of
discussions between the Government of Canada and the
provincial goverfiments with respect to the distinct society
provisions and the veto put forward by the Prime Minister as an
of fer to the government of Quebec'?
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):

Motion agreed to.
9(141o)

CHILD ABUSE AND NEGLECT
DEATH 0F MATFHEW VAUDREUIL-NOTICE 0F INQIJIRY

Hon. Anne C. Cools: Honourable senators. pursuant to
rules 56(l1) and 57(2), I give notice that on Wednesday next,
December 6, 1995, I will caîl the attention of' the Senate to the
child abuse and neglect death - or CAN - of five-year old
Matthew Vaudreuil, and to his mother Verna Vaudreuil's role in
that child abuse and neglect death, and to the inquiry by the
Honourable Judge Thomas J. Gove. called the Gove inquiry into
Child Protection, being an inquiry into the state of child
protection services in the Province of' British Columbia as they
relate to the apparent child abuse and neglect death of Matthew
Vaudreuil.

QUESTION PERIOD
NATIONAL UNITY
INDIAN AFFAIRS DOCUMENT ON POST-REFERENDUM POLICY
PURPORTEDLY PREPARED BY OFFICIAL GOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. Charlie Watt: Honourable senators. my question is for
the Leader of the Government in the Senate. and relates to an
article in yesterday's Globe and Mail, concerning a document
that supposedly was leaked trom the L)epartment of Indian
Affairs. On the one hand. 1 guess it is not surprising to read
something along the fines of' what is stated in that leaked
document. Is this document a truc representation of the views of
the administration of the government? Further, does the
document corne from the administrative level or from the
political level of the government'?
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators. 1 assume that my honourable friend is
referring to the article concerning the Department of Indian
Affairs and post-referendum policy. I can say nîost categorically
that that document docs not corne trom the political level. It was

Honourable senators. the measures currently before the House of'
Commons are purely legislative in nature. They reflect the
commitment or the intent of the Govemnment of Canada to act in
a certain manner in relation to the possibility, if any. in the years
leading up to 1997, of dealing with the veto and also the
comi-itment of recognizing the reality of Quebec.
Aboriginal peoples are fully protected under section 35 of the
Constitution. Absolutely nothing in the two measures currently
before the House of Commons in any way infringes or derogates
from any of the rights or obligations under the Constitution for
aboriginal peoples, including their dlaims, and the government's
commitment within section 35. for recognition of their inherent
rights.

Senator Watt: 1 take it, then. that aboriginal peoples will be
invited to the Quebec round of discussions, as opposed to being
left out and deait with separately'?
Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators, the only discussions
contemplated in the area of constitutional change will be in 1997
when the Constitution itself says that the amending formula.
currently in the Constitution, is up for review and discussion.
However. at this point in time. the only thing being dealt with
is what is currently before the House of Commons. As I
understand it, this is not a question of engaging in a round of'
discussion or negotiation.

Senator Watt: Honourable senators. I realize what the Prime
Minister is attempting to do. I also understand the reply of the
honourable leader to my questions. Nevertheless, even though
the proposais from the Prime Minister are merely legislative
initiatives. they certainly have a constitutional impact.
My question is this: Even though the Constitution itself is not
being dealt with in the Quebec round of discussions leading up to
Canadian unity, and even though this is a legisiative measure,
will aboriginal peoples be involved in these discussions in the
future'?

Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators, when those
negotiations and discussions do take place in the future although certainly not at this point in tinie - aboriginal peoples
wiIl have a role to play. 1 arn certainlv supportive ofthat.

November 30, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

Senator Watt: It worries me when the honourable leader says
"not at this time." Why can these discussions not take place at
this time? Why is it that aboriginal peoples must take a back seat
when dealing with the question of unity?
Aboriginal peoples are the basis of this country. The federal
government should recognize the aboriginal peoples of this
country once and for aIl, rather than merely referring to only two
founding nations. For that reason, aboriginal peoples must be
involved in this process.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: The government takes you for
granted, that is why.

2383

responsible individual, and carries out his duties with the utmost
care.
Senator Comeau: I do not wish in any way to suggest that
this gentleman would not apply due diligence to his job, but we
must remember that he who pays the piper calls the tunes.
Given that the Prime Minister pays this gentleman's salary,
would it not be more appropriate to have someone who is
viewed, at least by the public, as being independent? In keeping
with the spirit of suggestions which we will be making, I suggest
the Auditor General of Canada, Mr. Desautels, be considered for
appointment. Certainly no one questions his pursuit of integrity.

Senator Fairbairn: I firmly support my honourable friend's
position on the importance of the aboriginal peoples in this
country, and their role in the debate on national unity. The issues
currently before the House of Commons relate strictly to the
commitments made during the referendum by the Prime
Minister: nothing more and nothing less. In constitutional terms,
the position of aboriginal peoples is absolutely secure.

Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators, I will convey that
question as well to my honourable colleagues. I am sure that my
honourable friend did not intend to imply anything by his
comments, but the current ethics councillor is not dancing to
anybody's tune but, rather, to the mandate which he has been
given.

ETHICS COUNSELLOR

Hon. Peter Bosa: I rise on a supplementary question,
honourable senators.

DESIRABILITY OF INDEPENDENT COUNSELLOR
REPORTING TO PARLIAMENT-GOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. Gerald J. Comeau: Honourable senators, today's
Montreal Gazette and La Presse contained a propaganda insert
from the Liberal Party of Canada, seeking to collect funds. The
insert makes reference to Red Book promises that have been kept
by the government. One such promise, in particular, was that an
independent ethics counsellor would be appointed, after
consultation with leaders of ail parties in the House of Commons,
and would report directly to Parliament.
Honourable senators, while in fact an ethics counsellor has
been appointed, he is not independent. He reports to the Prime
Minister, not to Parliament.
An October 27, 1994 editorial in The Toronto Star called this
the most blatant betrayal of the Red Book promises. It observed
that the inevitable result would be to have an ethics watchdog
loyal to his political master, not to the public.

EXISTENCE OF JOINT COMMITTEE ON CODE OF CONDUCT

Is the Honourable Leader of the Govemment aware that there
is a joint Senate-House of Commons committee studying the
code of conduct at the present time, and that members are free to
attend those meetings?
Senator Berntson: I would be very surprised if she was not
aware.
Senator Bosa: Are you aware?
Senator Berntson: Yes, I am aware.
Don't disappoint us. You are aware, right?
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, I am very much aware of the committee, as
I am sure are ail my colleagues in this chamber. This issue
touches aIl of us. I know that the joint committee will conduct
itself incisively, will not be dancing to anybody's tune and will
be concentrating on its mandate.

Honourable senators, to make the ethics counsellor truly
independent as was promised, would the government consider
changing reporting arrangements so that the counsellor reports to
Parliament and not simply to the Prime Minister?

[Later]

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, I will convey my honourable friend's
question to the Prime Minister and others in the govemment. I
would simply say to my honourable friend that the ethics
counsellor who was appointed, Mr. Howard Wilson, is a very

Hon. Finlay MacDonald: Honourable senators, Senator Bosa
has raised a rather interesting point. Every once in a while we
must go through a code of conduct operation. I suppose it is like
a trade association in that, when it prints its code of ethics, it
makes them feel warm aIl over.

JOINT COMMITTEE ON CODE OF CONDUCTRELEVANCE TO PARLIAMENTARIANS

In reading through the transcripts of the joint committee so
far, I am somewhat puzzled. I can see them getting into matters
involving conflicts of a certain kind. However. I really wonder
whether the accumulated experience of these people before they
came to this chamber - their upbringing by their parents. their
education and their spiritual beliefs - is not enough, in
combination with the appropriate sections in the Parliament of
Canada Act and the Criminal Code. With that accumulation of
experience and those statutes to guide us, if we do not understand
what is expected of us. then we should not be here.
Honourable senators, I find that whole process offensive, and I
think that. in your hearts, most of you will tend to agree with me.
This is a charade. They may come up with a few small things,
such as if you have a share in a certain company you should not
sit on a certain committee. but on the basis of morality, on the
basis of being able to determine what is a bribe and what is not,
or how one should behave oneself, do you not find that this
whole exercise is useless?

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, I have sympathy for what Senator
MacDonald has said. However, I hope it is not a useless exercise.
The preface to the honourable senator's question is. in large
measure, very true. As the honourable senator will know, over
the years, regardless of which party has been in power, this issue
has arisen almost cyclically. It arises again and again, demanding
to be examined.
I am sure that there are always points which can be
re-emphasized and set out with greater clarity, perhaps not for the
benefit of those who serve in our chambers but for the
reassurance of people outside our chambers.
I have followed this issue for a great many years. I know that
the senators and the members of the House serving on that
committee are doing so out of goodwill. I am sure that their
intent is to reflect in their report anything that would be helpful
to us or to the public.
Honourable senators, I agree with Senator MacDonald that in
public life, as in private life, the degree to which the standards
are reflected is based very much upon what is inside the
individual.
Hon. Peter Bosa: Honourable senators, is the honourable
leader aware that the teachings of our parents. the ethics by
which we try to abide and aIl the things which pertain to
behaving properly, including the Criminal Code, have been taken
into consideration in studies conducted in the past? It is not the
case that we have suddenly reached a level of ethies such that
there is no longer a need to attempt to improve the situation.
Senator Fairbairn: Yes, honourable senators. I am aware of
that. I know that members of the committee are finding parts of
the study very interesting. even engrossing. and are putting their

[ Seniator Nac)oinid

1

minds to the task. I emphasize that, in fact, the exercise is a
useful one. It is useful for the participants as well as for the
reassurance of those in the public who may have a view of our
activities which differs from reality.
Ultimately, however, as Senator MacDonald has said, the
compliance with ail the rules known to humankind which can be
put down on paper is within the wills and the hearts of those
serving in public life.

ABORIGINAL PEOPLES
RIGHT TO SELF-DETERMINATION-GOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. Noël A. Kinsella: Honourable senators, further to the
questions asked by our colleague Senator Watt, is it the position
of the Government of Canada that the aboriginal peoples of
Canada have the right to self-determination?

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators are aware of the position aboriginal people
hold within the Constitution. The aboriginal people have been a
fundamental part of the building of this country. They have
contributed to the unity of this country. That will continue. In
constitutional discussions down the road, whenever they occur, I
am sure they will be playing an active role.
Senator Kinsella: Honourable senators, is it the position of
the Government of Canada that the aboriginal peoples have the
right to sovereignty?
Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators, I would wish to
examine with others the import of the honourable senator's
question. In terms of the position of aboriginal peoples in this
country, their inherent right to self-determination is protected
under section 35 of our Constitution, as the honourable senator
well knows.
RATE OF ILLITERACY AMONG NATIVE YOUTHPOSITION

GOVERNMENT

Hon. Noël A. Kinsella: Honourable senators, those questions
were motivated by the questions raised by Senator Watt.
Independently, I wanted to question the minister on the
development of aboriginal communities across Canada. I would
like to draw attention to aboriginal youth in Canada. The
Minister of Human Resources Development announced some
time ago that 16 new programs. aimed at 17,500 Indian youths
on reserves, would start this month.
Statistics cited by the minister indicated that 60 per cent of the
people on reserves are illiterate. As minister responsible for
literacy, what percentage of native youth is classified as
illiterate? How big is that problern for which you are responsible,
Minister?

November30.
1995SENATE
DEBATES

November 30, 1995

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Governinent):
Honourable senators, 1 would flot wish to, put a statistie on that
question. Because of the nature of gathering statisties in this
country, any number would probably be understated.
One issue which bas always been in the forefront of the minds
of aboriginal peoples is their inherent right to self-government.
Another fundamental issue for aboriginal communities is the
education of their people. As my honourable friend knows, the
reach of the programs in which I arn involved is, of necessity,
limited. However, 1 can assure honourable senators that there are
aboriginal programs in place through the National Literacy
Secretariat and also through cooperative efforts with the
provinces. We support these aboriginal programs to the fullest
extent possible. We also support the literacy efforts of the
Assembly of First Nations. 1 only wish we had more resources to
give them for their work.
I know that my colleague the Minister of Indian Affairs is also
concerned with this issue. This is a fundamental issue for
aboriginal people, and any development, opportunities and
solutions must begin with their youngest people. 1 wish 1 could
do more.
Senator Kinsella: Some native leaders with whom I work at
the university in my province held a seminar on this issue. This
question arose: In the last two years, how many new programs
have begun, directed specifically to combat illiteracy with native
youth?

2385
28

companies to influence the evaluation and licensing
decision of rBST by Health Canada.
This position is substantiated by the fact that Health
Canada scientists, in their evaluation of rBST from the
Monsanto Company, have requested further scientific
information with regard to animal safety and efficacy. The
evaluation of this additional information cannot commence
until the manufacturer bas forwarded it to Health Canada, a
process which could take many months.
ANSWER TO ORDER PAPER QUESTION TABLED
EMPLOYMENT

Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government) tabled the answer to Question No. 108 on the
Order Paper - by Senator Oliver.

ORDERS 0F THE DAY
CUSTOMS ACT
CUSTOMS TARIFF
BILL TO AMEND-THIRD READING

Senator Fairbairn: I will have the officiais at the National
Literacy Secretaniat provide me with that information as we have
it. Again, my honourable friend will know that we are restricted
in what we can do. Some of the efforts that exist in this area also
exist at the provincial level. I wiIl try to get as much information
as I can for my honourable friend.

Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government) moved the third reading of Bill C-102, te, amend
the Customs Act and the Customs Tariff, and to make related and
consequential amendments to other acts.

DELAYED ANSWER TO ORAL QUESTION

EMPLOYMENT EQUITY BILL

Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Governent): Honourable senators, I have a response to a
question raised in the Senate on October 17, 1995, by the
Honourable Senator Spivak regarding the bovine growth
hormone.

CONSIDERATION OF REPORT 0F STANDING SENATE COMM ITEE
ON SOCIAL AFFAIRS. SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY-REFERRED
BACK TO COMMITTEE

HEALTH
BOVINE GROWTH HORMONE-EVALUATION 0F HEALTH RISKREPRESENTATIONS FROM UNITED STATESGOVERNMENT RESPONSE

(Response to question raised bY' Hon. Mira Spivak on
October 17, 1995)

Neither the Minister of Health nor Health Canada have
any knowledge or evidence of high level pressure tactics
being applied at any govemmental level by multinational

Motion agreed to and bill read third time and passed.

The Senate proceeded to consideration of the eleventh report
of the Standing Senate Committee on Social Affairs, Science and
Technology regarding Bill C-64, respecting emptoyment equity,
presented in the Senate on November 22, 1995.
Hon. Rose-Marie Losier-Cool: Honourable senators, 1 move
the adoption of the report.
MOTION IN AMENDMENT

Hon. Eric Arthur Berntson (Deputy Leader of the
Opposition): Honourable senators, after some discussion with
my counterpart, it bas been determined that there may be some
deficiencies in this bill. In any event, there may be some interest
in calling further witnesses before the committee.

For that reason, in anendment I move, seconded by my
honourable friend Senator Lynch-Staunton:
That the report be not now adopted, but that it be referred
back to the Standing Committee on Social Affairs, Science
and Technology for further consideration.
The Hon. the Speaker: Is it your pleasure, honourable
senators, to adopt the motion in amendment?
Motion agreed to.

PRIVATE BILL
EVANGELICAL MISSIONARY CHURCH
(CANADA WEST DISTRICT) BILL-SECOND READING

Hon. Leonard J. Gustafson moved the second reading of
Bill S-12. to amalgamate the Alberta corporation known as the
Missionary Church with the Canada corporation known as the
Evangelical Missionary Church, Canada West District.
He said: Honourable senators, I should like to take this
opportunity to make a few short remarks on the amalgamation of
two churches: the federal corporation, known as the Evangelical
Missionary Church. Canada West District, and the Alberta
corporation, known as the Missionary Church. They are
continued by this enactment as one corporation under the name
Evangelical Missionary Church, (Canada West District).
Honourable senators. I have been a member of one of these
churches which are amalgamating. There are several very
positive reasons for the amalgamation of these two churches.
They both have their roots in the Wesleyan movement of many
years ago, originally out of Great Britain.
I want to quote from some of the recommendations that were
put forward by the churches as reasons for amalgamating. Under
"Values of Merger" it states:
Considering merger is an appropriate response to scripture.
In the book of John, Jesus prays, "May they be brought to
complete unity to let the world know that you sent me and
have loved them even as you have loved me."
Basically, they are saying that unity is very important. These
churches are amalgamating. There are times when churches
separate, but unity is better than separation. That is the main
reason that the churches put forward for unity. They go on to
state:
Merger would give us a stronger national identity and voice.
Besides being larger, both present denominations would
gain churches in areas where they currently do not have any.
I will touch on a few points to bring senators up to date on
exactly what is happening under this bill. The networking that
churches would develop through this merger is significant. They
would retain more people who move to new locations. instead of

I Senator

Berntson

1

losing so many who have learned to appreciate and support the
program of their local churches and denominations. Church
planning would be given a stronger boost in the networking of
churches, especially in Western Canada.
Pastor placement would be enhanced by a larger pool of
churches and pastors. We always work towards excellence in
fitting pastors to congregations. A broader range to select from
increases the possibilities of ministers serving in a situation
appropriate to their gifts.
The process of merging gives us an opportunity to re-examine
denominational, district and local church structure and policy,
and to effect positive changes that will make us more effective in
carrying out the work of the Kingdom.
Merger would result in better stewardship for western
conference costs. Instead of having two conferences and two
district conference offices, there would be one office. Further, by
combining the present number of salaried positions. we could
provide greater specialized ministry to our pastors and churches.
Honourable senators, I ask for your support in this matter, and
move that this bill be sent to the Standing Senate Committee on
Legal and Constitutional Affairs.
Motion agreed to and bill read second time.
REFERRED TO COMMITVEE

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, when shall this
bill be read the third time?
On motion of Senator Gustafson. bill referred to the Standing
Senate Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs.

UNITED NATIONS
FOURTH WORLD CONFERENCE ON WOMEN. BEIJING, CHINA

On the Order:
Resuming the debate on the inquiry of the Honourable
Senator Pearson, calling the attention of the Senate to the
Fourth World Conference on Women, held in Beijing, from
September 4 to 15. 1995, which she and Senator Cohen had
the privilege to attend as parliamentary observers on behalf
of the Senate.-(HonourableSenator Cohen)
Hon. Erminie J. Cohen: Honourable senators, I was
privileged to have been asked to attend the United Nations
Fourth World Conference on Women as a member of the officiai
Canadian delegation and as a parliamentary observer. This was
the first opportunity I had had to participate in a United Nations
forum, and I found it an exhilarating experience. greatly
enhanced for me. both personally and professionally, by the
company of my colleague Senator Landon Pearson, from whom I
learned a great deal.

November 30, 1995

November 30, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

SENATE DEBATES

On November 8. my colleague spoke of the tremendous
achievements made at the conference in bringing to world
attention the plight of the girl child. I will highlight some of the
other issues addressed, and Canada's leadership role in moving
some of them forward.
Some of the Western media reports claimed that there was a
sense at the conference of preaching to the converted. However,
when you consider that many women came from countries where
they have no legal rights toward their own children, let alone any
property or inheritance rights, it is easier to see what an
achievement it was for many just to be there. In a setting where
political dissent of any kind is not tolerated, it was impressive to
see women demanding social, economic and political change.
To draw the contrast more sharply, I refer to a story reported
by CTV's Diana Bishop on what it means to lose face in China.
As in many Eastern cultures, it is imperative that one not be
embarrassed in public. Great pains are taken to ensure that this
does not happen. In China, if a woman causes a man to lose face,
her punishment is to be permanently disfigured by having
sulphuric acid thrown in her face. Upon hearing about this, the
only remote Western parallel I could think of might be the
l7th century custom of forcing adulterous women to wear the
letter "A" to remind the public of their transgression. This gives
you some idea, honourable senators, of how far Chinese women
have to go before they achieve real equality.
That the conference went forward at ail may have served to
open the eyes of Chinese authorities, and perhaps provided some
measure of hope, not only to Chinese women but to ail those in
that country who are struggling for human rights, and the world
acceptance that comes with respecting those rights.
In China, even informai women's groups are subject to
surveillance. That applied to us, as well. We had to show our
hotel registration cards every time we entered the elevator, and
no visitors were allowed in the hotel rooms. If they saw a "Do
Not Disturb" sign on a door, they would ask why. There was a
real concern among the Chinese security officiais that we would
engage in subversive activities.
Between August 30 and September 15, there were over
30,000 women in Beijing and Huairou attending the NGO forum
and the UN conference. Of these, 17,000 registered delegates
from 189 countries participated in the conference, making it the
largest UN conference ever held.
The official government delegation was made up of
parliamentarians, federal officiais, and representatives from
provincial and territorial governments, youth, labour, business,
churches, academia, and non-governmental organizations.
Five hundred Canadians participated in the NGO forum. They
brought with them the experience of their local realities, and kept

2387
2387

the discussion of issues grounded in the real and the possible.
Now, NGOs have another role to play: Holding governments
accountable for implementing the agreements reached, and for
ensuring that cultural excuses do not stand in the way of
women's equality rights.
As Suzanne Mubarek, the first lady of Egypt, so eloquently put
it:
We are not here so that some of us may impose certain
values or beliefs, which others may consider to be against
their religion or their morals. If you have the right to believe
in what I reject, I also have the right to reject what you
believe in, or believe in what you reject. Without this type
of understanding, relationships would be based on
oppression and submission, and not on equality or justice.
During the course of the 10 days we were there, we met with
the Ahl China Lawyers Association - the equivalent of the
Canadian Bar Association - the Chinese Ministry of Health, the
All China Women's Federation and many others, including Ken
Sundquist, the chargé d'affaires and Acting Canadian
Ambassador in Beijing.
0 (1450)

As parliamentarians, we held private meetings with our
Chinese counterparts. The Chinese cabinet includes three women
ministers out of a total of 32, all three of whom were part of the
officiai Chinese delegation. It became obvious very soon that
they were not speaking for themselves as women but more as
representatives of the state.
We also met with the Chinese YMCA and YWCA. Although it
has been around for most of this century in China, the "Y" had to
go underground during the cultural revolution and has been
active again only since 1980. It now has over 700,000 members
in Shanghai alone.
The "Y" is neither independent nor autonomous. Like ail
women's groups in China, it is closely affiliated with the
govemment-run AIl China Women's Federation. The federation
is governed by a national congress of Chinese women that meets
every five years to decide policy. In reality, the congress merely
acts to publicly affirm policies already decided upon at the top
levels of the Communist Party and of the government.
Through the course of previous UN preparatory meetings,
12 areas emerged as primary considerations for the future of
women in the world: poverty, education, health, violence, armed
conflict, economic structures, power sharing and
decision-making mechanisms to promote the advancement of
women, human rights, the media, the environment, and the
situation of the girl child. I will not go into detail on aIl of these
issues today, but I would like to touch on a few.

To demonstrate the progress that bas been achieved through
these world conferences, we have only to look at the issue of
violence against women. The issue was introduced
internationally by Canada at the Nairobi conference in 1985.
Now, 10 years later, a consensus bas been reached that violence
against women will not be tolerated anywhere, no matter what
cultural excuses a country might use.

shown that with a loan as small as $100. a poor woman can, with
her own business, double her family income and lift her family
out of poverty after five years.

Canada again led the way in negotiating the inclusion of very
strong wording on this subject. The Beijing declaration asks
governments to be responsible for protecting women from
violence in the home and in society. It recognizes that the terrible
effects of violence reverberate throughout society, and cannot be
written off as a private issue.

Conventional banks in this country have been chastised
repeatedly for their poor lending rates to small business. Their
excuse is that they do not make enough profit on such loans
because of high administrative costs. Thankfully, the message
seems to be getting through to some banks, where an effort is
being made to streamline their operations and adjust their
priorities to meet the needs of small enterprise. I understand the
repayment rate of these loans to women is very high.

The Canadian team was instrumental in achieving a number of
other major changes. Our delegation sponsored a resolution
calling for worldwide recognition that rape in armed conflict
should be considered a war crime. Canada also won support for
our initiative to promote the development of guidelines for
accepting refugees based on gender-related persecution, an
initiative that had its genesis under the previous federal
government.
Some of us in the parliamentary delegation left the confines of
the conference site to visit Shanghai, a city where Canada
maintains a consulate. While there. we meet with the Shanghai
Women's Federation. A tour of their facilities included a
women's credit centre that receives some of its funding from
CIDA. It is one of many examples of how women are being
encouraged to help themselves.
Micro-credit programs such as this one are aimed at giving
small loans to the poor so that they can run their own small
businesses. They can rarely get such loans from conventional
banks, even though a study by the World Bank shows the clear
success rate of these programs. In Third World countries, these
programs have a full repayment rate of 93 per cent or more in
one year.
Micro-banks, such as the Grameen Bank in Bangladesh,
started by lending as little as $10 to poor rural women.
Gradually, the women began to apply for loans of $200 to $300.
Grameen lends $1.5 million each day in loans that average $140.
The on-time repayment of loans by the Grameen Bank's poor
women borrowers is 98 per cent.
Muhammed Yunus, director and founder of the Grameen
Bank, also referred to as the "barefoot bank," was in Toronto last
week to receive an honourary doctorate from the University of
Toronto. He believes that:
Access to credit is a basic human right. not a privilege.
Over the past 20 years, he bas helped make that belief a reality
for millions of landless poor, most of them women.
The World Women's Banking Organization bas enjoyed an
outstanding recovery rate of 97 per cent in one year. It bas been

I Senator Cohen

|

Similar success stories can be found here in Canada, where the
Federal Business Development Bank runs micro-credit programs
targeting the native community and native women in some cases.

CIDA's Canada Mission Fund has funded some 70 small
projects that have empowered women in China in very real ways.
In one extracurricular foray, Canadians, led by my colleague
Senator Pearson, were the first parliamentarians to visit the
Ganzu province of China, where they saw how even a small sum
of money can empower women to change their lives and those of
their families. For $20,000, CIDA brought water to 2,000 people
living in three villages - a project, honourable senators, which
saved women five hours a day in labour. Needless to say. the
entire village came up to welcome this delegation.
Sustainable economic development depends upon educating
and investing in women, but the fact is that 70 per cent of the
world's poor are women. Governments and financial institutions
must be urged to give these women a chance by making more
credit available to them.
The benefits of encouraging these women go far beyond
increased income. They are better able to take care of their
families. They are able to send their children to school, reinvest
in the community, and plan for the future. They experience pride
and hope.
As Hillary Rodham Clinton noted in her speech, so often when
woman come together to talk, the discussion turns to their
children. Taking care of the family bas always been a priority for
women, and that link is the foundation of our society. While
some would say the family is falling apart, it is not because that
fundamental link bas been severed. Women still take care of the
children and the elderly, yet most of the work they do is not
valued - not by economists, historians, government leaders or
the popular culture. and too often not even by the fathers of the
children involved.
One of the goals of this conference was to strengthen families
within societies by empowering women to take greater control of
their own destinies. This cannot be fully achieved unless private
industry as well as governments here and around the world
accept their share of the social responsibility to protect and
promote the physical and econornic well-being of women and
children.

November 30, 1995

November3O, 1995

2389

SENATE DEBATES

2389

SENATE DEBATES

The reality of world poverty make programs such as
micro-Iending imperative. James Wolfensohn, the new president
of the World Bank, spoke on the last day of the conference as one
who needed no convincing of the economic impact of improving
the lives of women. He said:

Now that the conference is over, the challenge is to fulfil our
commitment to the Bei jing Declaration and Platform for Action.
My hope is that Canada will continue to act as a leader in
promoting women's equality rights and build on the work of our
delegation.

Transformation ... will require flot just the liberation of
women, but also the liberation of men - in their thinking,
attitudes and willingness to take a fair share of the
responsibilities and workloads that women carry on their
shoulders. To bring about real improvement in the quality of
women's lives, men must change, and action must begin at
home. For each of us, change lies in the kind of household
we live in, the society we help to build, and the institutions
we work for.

Those of us who have the opportunity to be heard have the
responsibility to speak for those who cannot, and 1 thank you,
honourable senators, for the opportunity to do so in this chamber
today.

This, honourable senator, by the President of the World Bank.
A coalition of NGOs was established in Beijing called
Women's Eyes on the World Bank, to ensure that such words are
followed up with concrete action. The World Bank is now
lending an average of about $5 billion a year for projects which
include some specific measures to strengthen the role of women
in development. The bank has recognized the need to match
economic with social considerations in the programs they
support, and Mr. Wolfensohn committed the World Bank to
further action.
Prior to the conference, we were told in our briefing that
Canada had adopted a plan for gender equality. One of the key
elements of the plan js that ail future policies and legislation wilI
include an analysis of their impact on women. It was an
important breakthrough and a prestigious achievement for
Canada, but looked at through the eyes of women from countries
where girl children are denied a basic education. it is impossible
to be smug about sucb achievements. The Beijing conference
was an achievement for many reasons. That it actually took place
after so many obstacles were put in its way is an achievement in
itself.
00150)

As Gertrude Mangella, the secretary general of the conference,
said:
Women are flot guests of the planet. This planet belongs to
themn too... decree of solidarity that was achieved.. .is
.The
reflected in one principle, which is not to be compromised.
This is the equality between human beings, equality
between men and women. The message of Beijing is not
further analysis but meaningful action for which we ail are
accounitable.
That a strong and united message of human rights emerged
from within a country famnous for its disregard of such rights is a
remarkable achievement. It is encouraging that the conference
got SO much media coverage in the West, at a time when the story
of women's quest for equality had already been told s0 often.

The Hon. the Speaker: If no other senator wishes to speak,
this inquiry is considered debated.
ELECTORAL BOUNDARIES
READJUSTMENT BILL, 1995
NOTICE OF- MOTION TO INSTRUCT COMMITIEE ON LEGAL
AND CONSTITUTIONAL AFFAIRS TO TABLE FINAL REPORTPOINT 0F ORDER-SPEAKER'S RULING

On the Order:
That it be an instruction of this House to the Standing
Senate Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs that
no later than Monday, December 11, 1995, it present its
final report to the Senate on the Message from the House of
Commons, dated June 20, 1995, and on the motion of the
Honourable Senator Graham dated June 28, 1995, regarding
Bill C-69, An Act to provide for the establishment of
electoral boundaries commissions and the readjustment of
electoral boundaries.
That in its report, the Committee recommend to the
Senate that it not insist on its amendments to which the
House of Commons disagreed on June 20, 1995. (Speaker 's Ruling)

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, 1 have received
my copy of the ruling. Unfortunately, copies have flot been made
for the use of the Senate. Is it your wish that I proceed to make
the ruling?
Hon. Alasdair B. Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Goverument): Proceed.
Hon. John Lynch-Staunton (Leader of the Opposition):
Next week.
Hon. Eric Arthur Berntson (Deeputy Leader of the
Opposition): Tuesday.
The Hon. the Speaker: What is the wish of the Senate?
Senator Graham: Proceed.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: Next sitting.

The Hon. the Speaker: It will take about five minutes to have
the copies made.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: We will wait. We are cooperative.
Hon. Noël A. Kinsella: Out of respect for the Speaker. we will
wait.

Senator Graham: Perhaps we can adjourn for five minutes.
The Hon. the Speaker: Is it your wish, honourable senators,
to suspend the sitting for five minutes?

Hon. Senators: Agreed.
The sitting of the Senate was suspended.
(1530

The sitting of the Senate was resumed.
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators. during Routine
Proceedings yesterday, Senator Carstairs sought to give notice of
a motion to require the Standing Senate Committee on Legal and
Constitutional Affairs to report on the message from the House
of Commons and the motion of Senator Graham of June 28
relating to the Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Bill, Bill C-69.
no later than Monday, December l1, 1995. At the same time. the
notice of motion also instructed the committee not to insist on the
Senate amendments to which the House of Commons has
disagreed.
On a point of order, Senator Phillips objected to the notice
because, in his view, a similar question had already been
proposed and voted on, and that to permit this motion to be
debated would be contrary to our rules. Later in the sitting, I
sought the advice of this house before considering a ruling.
In the exchanges which took place between the senators just
before yesterday's adjournment. three basic issues were
contended: The first is that Senator Carstairs does not have the
right to propose this motion under the rubric "Government
Notices of Motions." The second objection relates to the point of
order raised by Senator Phillips. that a motion that has already
been decided cannot be raised again. On this issue, specific
reference was made to rule 64 and to several citations from
Erskine May and Beauchesne.
The third point relates to the ability of the Senate to instruct or
guide the deliberations of one of its committees. With respect to
this issue, Senator Phillips suggested that I consult a decision of
the Honourable Speaker Deschatelets regarding a case where an
instruction to a committee had been proposed.

ITranslation]
I want to thank those senators who participated in the debate
on this point of order. I have had the opportunity to review the
arguments that were made yesterday and to consult the

authorities and precedents that were mentioned,
Speaker Deschatelets. In order not to impede
proceedings. I am prepared to rule now on an
proved surprisingly complex. I propose to deal
three objections that were raised.

including that of
the house in its
issue which bas
with each of the

[En glish]
With respect to the objection that Senator Carstairs, not being
the Leader of the Government, the deputy leader or a designate
of the govemment, should not be permitted to give a notice of
motion under the rubric "Government Notices of Motions" I find
that the objection is well founded.
Before 1991, the daily order of business did not recognize any
distinction between government and private senators for the
purpose of giving notice to a motion. Since 1991, however, the
distinction has been recognized in our rules, and if it is to have
any meaning, then it must be to limit the right of those who may
give notice under "Government Notices of Motions" to those
who are designated to speak for the government in this house.
Consequently. I find that Senator Carstairs does not have the
right to propose a govemment notice of motion. This must be
done by either the leader or deputy leader, or a designate in the
absence of either. Alternatively Senator Carstairs can propose
the motion under "Notices of Motions."
As to the second objection that a motion ought not to be put to
the Senate a second time during the same session. the issue is not
as simple as it may seem. The advice provided by the British
parliamentary authority Erskine May is not straightforward.
While it states that a ...motion or an amendment which is the same, in substance,
as a question which has been decided during a session may
not be brought forward again...
Erskine May goes on to explain that:
Whether the second motion is substantially the same is
finally a matter for the judgment of the Chair.
It appears that the Senate's precedents for determining whether
a question is the same in substance are not conclusive. I have
examined the earlier motion of Senator Fairbairn, seeking to
have the Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs report
on the message of the House of Commons and the motion of
Senator Graham that was defeated on division last week. That
motion proposed that the committee report no later than
Wednesday, November 22. This new motion orders the
committee to report no later than Monday, December l1.
Given that we are soon approaching an extended adjoumment
and a possible prorogation of the parliamentary session, I am
persuaded that, on the whole, there is sufficient difference in this
motion. in comparison with the one that was proposed last week,
to allow it.

November 30, 1995

November30.
1995SENATE
DEBATES

The third objection raised has to do with the instruction that is
a part of Senator Carstairs' motion. The notice of motion directs
the committee to recommend in its report that it flot insist on its
amendments to Bill C-69, to, which the House of Commons has
disagreed. 1 find this part of the motion to be quite troubling. As
an instruction, 1 believe it is out of order. Most instructions are
intended to allow a committee to do something it would not
otherwise have the power to, do.
In this case, the committee already has the power to
recommend that it not insist on the amendments to Bill C-69. To
order that the committee report with a specific recommendation
by way of a mandatory instruction is, 1 find, quite irregular.
The precedent of the decision of Speaker Deschatelets was
mentioned yesterday. In a ruling dated March 10, 1971, the
Speaker, faced with a point of order objecting to a similar
instruction. noted that:
Many precedents are referred to by Bourinot. ...whereby
instructions to committees were declared to be irregular
because the committee concerned already had the power to
take the action indicated.
Furthermore, I would point out that an instruction can be
inadmissible if it also proposes an objective which is inconsistent
with a decision already taken.
Applying this principle to the present case, it seems to me that
the proposed instruction is seeking to nullify the decision of the
Senate to authorize the committee to consider the message of the
House and the motion of Senator Graham.
For these reasons, 1 do not find the notice of motion of Senator
Carstairs to be in order.
Before I resume my seat, I would like to make a point, because
1 would flot want what happened yesterday to be established as a
precedent.
1 would refer honourable senators to rule 23, page 24, which
reads:
During the time provided for the consideration of the
daily Routine of Business and the daily Question Period, it
shahl not be in order to raise any question of privilege or
point of order.
In other words, the point of order raised yesterday was flot
raised at the proper time. I simply indicate that, in order that it
will not be established as a precedent for the future.
0(1520>)

Senator Graham: Honourable senators, now that we have
moved back to Govemment Notices of Motions -

2391
29

Senator Lynch-Staunton: 1 beg your pardon? Say that again.
Senator Grahami: We are now under Govemnment Notices of
Motions.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: No, no. That is stretching it a bit.
The Hon. the Speaker: We reverted to Govemment Notices
of Motions in order that 1 could make my ruling.
Senator Grahami: Accordingly, pursuant to rule 58(1 )(t)

-

Senator Lynch-Staunton: 1 arn sorry to interrupt. I should
like some clarification. Your Honour just gave a ruling. Why did
we have te, revert to, Government Notices of Motions in order to
give the ruling?
The Hon. the Speaker: When we reached Government
Notices of Motions earlier today, 1 rose and asked that this item
be deferred until later in the day because I did not have my rulîng
ready. The item was deferred at that time in order that 1 could
make my ruhing later.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: Do I understand correctly that
rulings are only given under the item under which they arise?
The Hon. the Speaker: 1 normally make my rulings on the
item under which the objection was raised.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: I ask this only for clarification. 1
hope Your Honour will bear with me. Do 1 understand correctly
that when the Speaker's ruling is given, it can only be given
under the rubric under which it is challenged? Had the point of
order been raised under Inquiries, for example, would the ruhing
have been given only when Inquiries were called?
The Hon. the Speaker: Yes. 1 would normally give the ruling
when that particular inquiry is called.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: I inquire only for clarification.
Thank you.
Senator Kinsella: Honourable senators, it was my
understanding, ahthough we would have to check Hansard, that
when His Honour interrupted the proceedings, he said that it be
agreed that he be allowed to revert to this item for the purpose of
delivering the ruling, but we had moved on, as far as that item is
concerned, to, other matters. The agreement given was on the
request to revert to this item for the ruling of the Speaker.
Therefore, no other matter can be dealt with without leave.
Senator Grahami: Honourable senators, there was a clear
understanding on this side that His Honour the Speaker had
asked that consideration of Government Notices of Motions be
deferred until he could bring his ruling forward and make copies
available to ail honourable senators.

The Hon. the Speaker: It was my understanding that 1 had
asked for the item to he deferred.
Senator Thériauit: That is wbat you got.
The Hon. the Speaker: 1 suppose 1 shaîl have to sec what
Hansard says.

Senator Berntson: Review the record and hring if hack next
week.

Senator Graham: Honourable senators. pursuant to
rule 58(l)(j)

-

Senator Lynch-Staunton: No. no. We want to follow the
proper procedure. Senator Kinsella bas raised the point which 1
tried to express. and 1 thank him for having donc so. The
agreement was that we would reveil to Government Notices of
Motions in order to hear the Speaker's ruling, and that that would
be the end of our retum te, that rubric. We neyer accepted the
suggestion whicb bas been presented by the Deputy Leader of the
Government. that going back to Govemnment Notices of Motions
was for other than receiving the Speaker's ruling. We have now
received the Speaker's ruling. Therefore, we go on to whatever
cisc there is on the Order Paper.
Senator Thériault: It was deferred.
Senator Graham: Honourable senators. that is not the
understanding of this side. We agreed that it be deterred because
we were in a state ot paralysis. We could not proceed under
Government Notices of Motions because we did not bave the
ruling of' the Speaker. which. under ordinary circumstances and
by ail precedent and convention. sbould be distributcd to
honourable senators so that we may examine it appropriately at
that time.

Senator Lynch-Staunton: Rulings of the Speaker can be
given at any lime during our deliberations. It was only out of
courtcsy that we agreed to, reveil to the rubrie under which the
challenge was originally made. The Speaker can give bis ruling
at any time.
Senator Thériault: That is what be did. at any time be wants.
There is a problcmr over there. What is the problem?
Senator Lynch-Staunton: The problcm is that we are now
away from Government Notices ot Motions. The purpose for
rcverting to it bas now been accepted and resolved. Therefore.
wc carry on with the rcst of the orders.
Senator Berntson: The adjournment motion is in order.

Senator Graham: Honourable senators, 1 appeal to the Chair
for undcrstanding in this matter. We did not proceed with the
item as intended at the clear request of the Chair that we wait
until we had copies of bis decision before proceeding on this
specifie item: Government Notices of Motions.

Senator Kinsella: Honourable senators. we have moved into
the exception of when agreement is given to move away from the
ordinary schedule of business. When Government Notices of
Motions is called. it is an opportunity for ail Government Notices
of Motions available to be brought forward. None were brought
forward today. His Honour asked l'or the consent of the bouse to
corne hack to this item for the purpose of issuing bis ruling which
relates to a malter raised during yesterday's sitting under that
rubric. That was agreed to. That is aIl that was agreed to.
The exception to the proceedings. agreed to hy unanimous
consent, was tbat the Senate go back to tbis item for the purpose
for wbich tbe Speaker had asked. Tbere was no request trom the
Deputy Leader of the Government to revert for notices of
motions which he was întending to bring forward. In order to do
that. we would bave to bave the unanimous consent of the bouse.
Senator Graham: The notice of motion which 1 want to move
at the present time was entirely dependent upon the Speaker*s
ruling.

Senator Kinsella: Clearly, if tbere is a government notice of'
motion to be brougbt forward, the appropriate time to do that
would be now. if we grant unanimous consent to revert to tbat
item, or at tbe next sitting ot the bouse.
Senator Graham: We could bave agreed at the lime for the
Speaker to read bis decision to aIl honourable senators. However.
it was the unanimous agreement of the chamber. at his request,
that we delay and tben revert to this specific item: Govemment
Notices of Motions. 1 appeal to the Chair that. in aIl fairness. we
be allowed to proceed under that particular item.
Senator Kinsella: Honourable senators. chaos will only ensue
under the vision advanced by the Deputy Leader of the
Government. It is quite common that senators ask for leave to
revert to one item or another. and leave is often granted.
However, the reversion is always to the specific item requested
hy the honourable senator. that is. Presentation of Petitions or
Notices of Motions. In my experience here, leave bas alwavs
been granted on a specific malter, as it was in this instance to t&
Speaker.
Hon. Sharon Carstairs: Honourable senators. witb the
greatest respect, we have an Order Paper. 1 clearly violated that
Order Paper yesterday. for which 1 accept responsibility. That
may be attrihuted to my not having as clear a knowledge of the
rules as some other honourable senators.
Howevcr. when the Speaker called for Government Notices of
Motions, hefore the government could introduce a single motion
under that listing on the Order Paper, the Speaker continued. He
said. 'I wish to deter this motion because 1 have a ruling under
Government Notices of Motions.- As a result. that item was
deferred in its entirety because no one was given the opportunity
to speak -neither the leader nor the deputy leader - because
His Honour had asked for permission to defer. and we gave himi
that permission.

November 30, 1995

November30,
1995SENATE
DEBATES

[Translation]

Hon. Roch Bolduc: 1 ar nfot certain just what the senator is
saying. To be certain, we would have to look at Hansard as
suggested by His Honour the Speaker. Since it is flot available
today, we will have to wait until Tuesday to see what was said.
[English]

2393
29

sides here. It is common sense. No one is embarrassing His
Honour. He knows what he is doing. For God's sake, let us have
a little common sense.
[Translation]

Senator Bolduc: However, he did flot know you intended to
present a motion.

Hon. Marcel Prud'homme: Honourable senators, I doubt [English]
very rnuch that Senator Carstairs violated the rules yesterday. In
my opinion, she was wrongly advised. It wiIl bc clearer for me
Hon. H.A. Oison: Honourable senators, I was flot here when
because 1 doubt very much that she would willingly violate the ail these agreernents were being rnade.
law. Senator Carstairs, you carne prepared and weIl advised by
people who should have known better. 0f that I arn convinced.
Senator Berntson: That wiIl flot slow you down, wilI it?
1 would hate very much to proceed as Senator Graham is
suggesting. 1 should like to leave the Chair out of this at this
tirne, Senator Grahamn. Earlier today, the Chair, being unable to
give his decision in both languages, asked that it be donc so.
What would be the net resuit if anyone - myseit' included had said "No"? That would have been the end of the debate for
today. We would have received this very well-written advice
from His Honour on Tuesday next. Now, we want to reveil back
- 1 arn sure so that Senator Graham can do today, legally, what
was flot done yesterday.
1 say to Senator Graham, to have a very harmonious Senate,
you will flot get consent today for anything that may require the
unanirnous consent of the Senate. In good spirit, you are only
delaying everything, and are flot placing His Honour in an
embarrassing position by delaying until iùesday what you want
to do later on this afternoon.
That could be the end of the debate. Otherwise, we will flot
give in on this issue.
Therefore, everyone was in error. Who rnisunderstood His
Honour? We do not know yet. We shali know later on. 1 would
not have found myseif being ungracious to His Honour by saying
"Tough luck. If the translation is not ready, we shall proceed
when it is ready" and that would have been it for the day. We
would have waited, then, until Tuesday.
We are placing the Chair in an embarrassing position where he
is being asked to take sides, in a way. in a debate that is
arnbiguous for everyone. 1 rnake an appeal to Senator Graharn
and ask: Why flot do on Tuesday what you want to do this
aftemnoon?

Senator OIson: The argurnent 1 want to make is that
sometirnes it is useful to have an objective view of what went on.
Senator Doody: And you are always objective!
Senator Oison: Yes, because 1 was not involved in this matter.
The opposition cannot have it both ways. We already know
that the reason Senator Graharn did flot get to the business that he
wanted to introduce was that there was an agreement to set aside
that item until they had the translation and the printed copy. Both
sides have agreed that that is what happened.
Senator Berntson: We agreed to wait for the ruling.
Senator Oison: Of course you were waiting for the ruling.
However, Senator Graham told you, very frankly and very
plainly, that bis motion was dependent on what the ruling said.
Senator Berntson: You were flot here.
Senator Oison: You admiît that?
Senator Berntson: No, 1 do flot.
Senator Oison: You cannot have it both ways. You cannot
stop him now when you agreed to set aside that item until the
ruling was ready.
Senator Berntson: We got the ruling.
Senator Oison: You now have the ruling, and you also have
the reasons for the ruling.

Hon. L. Norbert Thériault: Honourable senators, there is no
It is perfectly clear to me. It was flot to start with, but it is clear
taking sides. This is normal procedure. His Honour sirnply asked now, as a resuit of what both sides have said. Both sides agreed
to defer "Governrnent Notices of Motions" until he was prepared to set aside that rubric or that item for the purpose of receiving
to give the reasons for rnaking bis ruling. In anybody 's common the ruling. Senator Grahamn told honourable senators that bis
sense, it opened up the subject-rnatter of "Govemment Notices of motion now - and I do flot know what it wiIl be, because I was
Motions." For God's sake, it is very sirnple. There is no taking not here - depended upon what that ruling said.

You cannot put the cart before the horse and have it both ways.
If you agreed to set aside that item, pending what the ruling said.
which Senator Graham -

Senator Berntson: We should invite His Honour to review the
record, then.

Senator Oison: Senator Graham said -and you have flot
disagreed with him -that he required to know hefore htc moved
bis motion. Do flot try to have it both ways.
Senator Berntson: He will move it on Tuesday. then.
Senator Oison: 1 am sure that is perfectly clear to you. Your
Honour.

Hon. Gerald R. Ottenheimer: Honourable senators. I have
listened with the usual amazement and great respect to the logic
of the Honourable Senator Oison. I am sure it is more a
deticiency in my own reception than in its transmission that the
logic is flot immediately obvious. However. I am sure upon study
that it will become so.
It may be that. for the tirst time in the Senate's history, we are
making a mountain out of somewhat of a molehili in the
procedural context, not in the substantive context.
In my opinion, the matter can be resoived very simply witbout
embarrassing the Chair. The Senate, apparently, gave leave. That
is an action of the Senate, it is flot an action of the Chair.
However. we are not sure ot what we, as a Senate. did. Did wc
give ]eave to revert to "Government Notices of' Motions." full
stop'?

Senator Lynch-Staunton: No.
Senator Berntson: No.
Senator Ottenheimer: Or did the Senate give leave to revert
to "Government Notices of Motions" for the purpose of a ruling
l'rom the Chair'?
Some Hon. Senators: Yes.
Senator Oison: Do not stop there!

Senator Ottenheimer: Wc can only leam that. flot by reading
one another's minds. flot by reading entrails of crows or birds
flying south. or by waiting for the ides of March to join in with
the Julins Caesar context in reading those entrails. Much casier
Iess messy. iess smeiiy. iess sticky. to read Hansard and leave the
entrails to the soothsayers.
Senator Berntson: Cati in your soothsayer.

Senator Graham: Solomon, where art thou'?
Honourabie senators. 1 iistened, as did other honourabie
senators. with continued confusion and confounded amazement.
Ail honourable senators on this side do flot want to embarrass the
Chair or cause more confusion in this chamber, because there
will be other days and other times between flow and the
Christmas break when we can debate or prolong matters of this
nature.
1 should point out. however. that this whole debate arises out
of a point of' order which was raised yesterday contrary to our
rules, as His Honour just explained in bis very useful addenduni
to bis judgment. It was alright for Senator Lynch-Staunton to
raise bis point of order yesterday at the wrong time. but it is not
okay to do something similar today.
Further. in the future. honourabie senators should remember
that to raise a point of order before the Senate. one must have an
issue upon which to base the point of order. Yesterday, Scnator
Carstairs simply gave notice of a motion. Nothing at that point in
time was really before the Senate; it was a notice of motion.
In my judgment, and perhaps it is something we should
consider in the future. the point of' order should properiy have
been raised when that motion had been moved. in the proper
place. at the proper time, by the proper senator. The point of
order should be raised when the motion is properly before the
Senate, and that can only be at the time the motion is actually
moved.
However. 1 think it wouid be useful to review Hansard.
Accordingly. 1 move that the Senate do now adjourn.
The Senate adjourned until Tucsday. December 5, 1995, at
2 p.m.

2395

THE SENATE
Tuesday, December 5, 1995
The Senate met at 2:00 p.m., the Speaker in the Chair.
Prayers.

SENATORS' STATEMENTS
THE LATE ROBERTSON W. DAVIES

[Translation]
TRIBUTES

ROYAL ASSENT

December 5, 1995

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, last Saturday night, Canada lost a great
man of letters, a man whom I admired intensely, Robertson
Davies. He was one of those very special people who was
discussed. argued about. respected and appreciated, flot only here
at home but around the world. He was, of course, famous for
being a novelist, a playwrigbt, teacher, University of Toronto
professor, master of Massey College, and as an actor, having
"trod the boards" with the OId Vic Company in England.

1 have the honour to inform you tbat The Right
Honourable John Charles Major, Puisne Judge of the
Supreme Court of Canada, in bis capacity as Deputy
Governor General, will proceed to the Senate Chamber
today, the Stb day of December 1995, at 4:45 p.m., for the
purpose of giving Royal Assent to certain bills.

My own appreciation of Robertson Davies began back in the
early 1960s when I was a student at Carleton University, aspiring
to a life of journalism. To me, Mr. Davies was a terrific
newspaper man, and that was high tribute. He was the Iively and
outspoken editor and publisher of the Peterborougb Examiner,
and he also wrote a monthly column called "A Writer's Diary." I
became an avid fan of his writing then and have remained 50
ever since.

NOTICE

The Hon. the Speaker informed the Senate that the following
communication had been received:
RIDEAU HALL

Sir,

Yours sincerely,
Anthony P. Smyth
Deputv Secretan;,Policv, Programn and Protocol

The Honourable
The Speaker of the Senate
Ottawa
[English]

PAGES EXCHANGE PROGRAM
WITH HOUSE 0F COMMONS
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, before 1 caîl for
Senators' Statements, 1 sbould like to advise you that we have
witb us today two House of Commons pages who have been
selected to participate in the exchange program witb the Senate
this week.

I wish to introduce to you Nadine Nickner, who is from
Timmins, Ontario. She is pursuing ber studies in political science
in the Faculty of Social Sciences at the University of Ottawa.
We also have with us Heather Brydon. She is studying at the
University of Ottawa and is enroled in the Faculty of Arts. I must
make special mention of the fact - and I trust honourable
senators wilI understand this - that she comes from Winnipeg.

Mani toba.

Using bis special gift, Robertson Davies not only told
Canadians in wniting something about themselves, but he also
told tbe world something about Canadians. Just as important, he
educated ail bis readers about the mysteries and the soul of the
human condition, a goal to which every wniter aspires, but one
that so few are able to, reach. He did it witb intelligence, witb wit
and with humour.
Honourable senators, perbaps one of the things you notice
most of aIl when reading a Robertson Davies book is that he
wrote witb love and depths of insight, empathy and
understanding, which I found truly inspiring. He received dozens
of awards during bis lifetime, and indeed, any new book that he
produced always attracted worldwide attention. However, of al
the attention and awards and tributes to bis talent, be stated:
1 neyer feel like a success. 1 always feel that the next book
had better be better than tbe last one. 1 think that when you
begin to think of yourself as a success, you are in danger.
Neyer be satisfied witb your own work.
The New York Times once said of hlm:
He is one of the most learned. amusing and otherwise
accomplished novelists of our time. His novels will be
recognized with the very best work of this century.

And this about a man, honourable senators. who told his own
biographer. -You're wasting your time. 1 haven't got a story to
tell.-

1 mentioned the Deptford Trilogy. That. as you know. was
written about Thamesville and Dresden in Southwestern Ontario.
It will. 1 think. be a monument in our literary heritage. 1 rejoice
in praising hlm.

Honourable senators. there certainly is a story to tell. and it is
a great story. It is a story about a compelling and engaging man
who made a very large and lasting contribution to the cultural life
of this country, whieh he loved intensely.

BRITISH COLUMBIA

As well, he was a very special human being. Perhaps his wife
Brenda expressed it best when she said on Sunday, "He was a
very humble human being. Anyone who talked to him genuinely
thought so."
Honourable senators. the last time 1 spoke to Robertson Davies
was over a year ago when he was appearing at the National
Gallery reading excerpts t'rom his latest book, The Cunining Mani.
I had the privilege of introducing him. He was generously
making an appearance on behaîf of literacy for the Ottawa
Citizen Literacy Foundation. He was delighted to do so. and he
enthraled the audience.
Although he is gone. he will neyer be forgotten. It is unlikely
that we wiIl ever see anyone quite like him again in Canada.

Hon. Richard J. Doyle: Honourable senators, there is rarely a
Canadian who makes as great an impression on his fellow
countrymen without earning their distaste and disownership as
Robertson Davies.
1 first met Robertson Davies whcn 1 went to work at The Globe
and Mail as a copy reader in the fifties. While Davies was not on
the staff of The Globe atnd Mail, as he was busy with the
Peterborough Examiner, he covered opera for the Toronto paper.
That was something which, at that point, the music editor did not
do, and the drama editor would not do. No one would concede
what kind of glorious entertainment or blasphemy grand opera
was. However. Robertson Davies delighted in the opportunity
and would come rushing in -late, of course - aîter each
performance of' the Canadian Opera Company to put his stamp
upon it.
I had the opportumty to be associated with hlm in a number of
enterprises after that. 1 was interested to read in the last few days,
as the tributes came in, how many people spoke of what a quiet.
gentle man he was; that he always spoke softly. Well, that was
not the Robertson Davies 1 knew. He spoke quietly; he did not
stamp his feet; he did flot even make speeches anywhere near the
Senate. but he could, in two or three words. put people down or
elevate them, as he might choose.
He was the distinguished master of Massey College - the first
master -and he was intensely interested in his job as a teacher.
That left him lots of time. he felt. to be involved in newspaper
politics. the family business. writing the Deptford Trilogy and
doing ail those other things he did without ever seeming to hurry.

1Senalor

I-airiairn 1

PROPOSALS ON NATIONAL UNITY ISSUESUNFAIR TREATMENT 0F PROVINCE

Hon. Gerry St. Germain: Honourable senators. as a
representative of the province of British Columbia, 1 arn very
disappointed with the Prime Minister's proposai for
constitutional change and the recent unfair treatment British
Columbians have been receiving from this governmient.
On numerous levels, British Columbians are not getting their
fair share from this government. For example. an analysis of
federal expenditures and procurement in B.C. prepared by Peat
Marwick KPMG Management Consulting on behaîf of Business
and Industry Development B.C. exposes the fact that federal
govemment spending in B.C. is significantty lower than ini any
other province or region in Canada. There is a widening gap
between B.C.'s contribution to Canada's economy and what the
province receives in return through federal government
expenditures. It is estimated that B.C. receives as littie as
5.2 per cent of major Crown projects. Recent legislation, such as
Bis C-18 and C-69. try to deny B.C.'s proper representation in
the House of Commons; Bill C-68 is opposed by the western
region as a whole; and now we have Bill C-I 10, which faits to
recognize the emerging prominence of B.C. as an important
region within Canada.
1 understand that today the Minister of Human Resources. the
Huiïuurablc Lloyd Axwurthy, announced that he will reduce
transter payments to B.C. by $47 million as a penalty to the
Govemnment of B.C. for trying to address its welfare crisis.
Fellow senators, 1 do not believe that the people of B.C. are
getting their fair share. Nor do I believe that the Prime Minister
has a mandate to make such arbitrary decisions in regard to the
Constitution. In fact, during the last federal election campaign.
he spoke against making changes to the Constitution as such.
By proceeding with Bill C-I 110 and other legislation recently
introduced by this governiment, the Prime Minister is driving a
wedge through this country instead of building a nation.
1 caîl on aIl senators and members of the other place from
British Columbia to put aside their partisanship and join
thousands of British Columbians in opposing this unfair and
divisive treatment. Let us start standing up l'or our people,
senators and members of the House of Commons from British
Columbia. Let us stand up for our province in the face of these
vicious attacks against our constitutional rights and unfair
treatment in this country.

December 5, 1995

2397
2397

SENATE DEBATES

SENATE DEBATES

December 5, 1995

[En glish]

[Translation]

THE LATE BRUNO GERUSSI
TRIBUTES

Hon. Jean-Louis Roux: Honourable senators, it was my
intention today to, mark the passing of two distinguished
representatives of Canada's artistic community. The first of these
was Robertson Davies, but afler hearing the moving and eloquent
words of Senators Fairbairn and Doyle, 1 shail say rio more. I
shaîl speak only of the second great figure whom the arts have
lost.
Honourable senators. I did not have the privilege of knowing
the great writer Robertson Davies personally, but such was flot
the case with the second artist to whom I would like to pay
tribute today, actor Bruno Gerussi. He died suddenly some two
weeks ago, although I leamed of the sad event only recently.
[En glish]

The son of an immigrant Italian stonemason who settled in
Medicine Hat, Alberta, Bruno won a scholarship to the Banff
School of Fine Arts and honed his gifts as an actor with the
Seattle Repertory Theatre. He was also part of the Stratford
Shakespearean Festival for many seasons, where I saw him for
the first time in 1954 playing old Gobbo in the Merchant of
Venice. Though playing opposite the great German actor Herbert
Volk in the role of Shylock, I have kept a most vivid memory of
bis portrayal of that small part.
1 did flot know it at the time, but I myself would be part of the
Stratford company two years later and would play on the festival
stage with Bruno Gerussi. It is still an open question as to who
had the idea of asking French-speaking Canadian actors to
impersonate the French court in Henrv V I thought it might be
Michael Langham, since he established the first contacts with us.
Recently, Tom Patterson insisted that he was the flrst to have had
the "great" idea. In any event, 1 do know that 1 played the French
ambassador in the second scene of the first act, and Orleans in
the rest of the play.
If memory serves, Bruno played various parts. including
Bardolph, formerly a servant to, Falstaff who became a soldier in
King Henry's army.
[Translation]

0

1420>

We had a great time, drinking, joking, and more often
rebuilding the world and reshaping our country, Canada, in a
spirit of tolerance, mutual understanding and happiness.
In the late sixties, Bruno Gerussi became a young widower
with two children to raise. He began to give them the best in
education and comfort and, consequently, had to leave the stage.
After being host of that three-hour national celebration,
Morningside, one of the finest programs on CBC radio, he
became the star, for 19 years, of the most successful CBC
television series ever, The Beachcombers, played in 30 countries
from Australia to Germany.
I very seldomi saw hlm in The Beachcombers. As a resuit, the
Greek character he portrayed in that program will luckily flot be
my last memory of Bruno. 1 much prefer thinking of him as Peer
Gynt or Romeo, two of the innumerable characters he portrayed,
mainly with the Canadian Players and with the Stratford
Shakespearean Festival.
As Peer Gynt, he was capable of ail the excesses, fantasies,
lies and incredible fables the character borrows from the legends
of his country, through which he pretends to have lived. 0f ail
the portrayals by my friend Bruno Gerussi, his portrayal of
Romeo is the one for which I most fondly remember him. He
brought to Montaigne's young son the bearing of a flippant little
punk, the leader of a teenage gang who liked to fight, bully, shout
and quarrel. However, once he had met his Juliet, played by Julie
Harris, he was transformed into a passionate lover; flot a
romantic ballad singer, perhaps, but an adolescent full of energy
and vital strength, a truly modern lover.
From that image of Romeo, years ago, Bruno had physically
turned into a Faîstaffian character. Had he flot renounced the
stage, this part would have suited him famously. This is probably
why, on leamning of his sudden death, the following words came
back to my mànd:
...He's in Arthur's bosom, if ever man went to Arthur's
bosom... A' made a finer end, and went away ...at the tumning
o' the tide...
WORLD AIDS DAY

0 (142o>)

EFFECT 0F PANDEMIC ON YOUTH

This meeting of the two groups of actors, anglophone and
francophone, was an important milestone in the history of
Canadian theatre, culminating later on in the creation of the
National Theatre School, among other things. Relationships were
quick to develop, quite cordial ones for the most part. The
cordiality was more spontaneous with some than with others, but
with Bruno Gerussi, it was instantaneous. He was extremely
open and friendly with us; this was a man of innate generosity.

Hon. Landon Pearson: Honourable senators, I rise today to
speak about AIDS-affected children and youth in conjuniction
with the Eighth Annual AIDS Day which was last Friday,
December 1. This year, the World Health Organization has
chosen the theme "Shared Rights and Responsibilities" to
emphasize the importance of solidarity in the global response to
HIV/AIDS.

Since the onset of the AIDS pandemic. over 1.5 million
children and youth. mostly in Africa but increasingly in Asia and
even in North America, have been infected with HIV. By the
year 2000. it is predicted that this number will increase to
between 5 and 10 million children. In addition to these sick and
dying children. millions of others under the age of 10 will have
lost one or both parents to AIDS. The impact of AIDS on
children is devastating, whether or not they are sick. There is the
terrible grief caused by the lingering death of their parents and
there is physical and intellectual impoverishment.
In Africa and elsewhere, many families remove children from
school to nurse their dying parents, to care for younger siblings.
or to augment or replace the familys meagre income. Girls are
usually the first to have to forego their education. Worse, when
one or both parents die, children often find themselves rejected
by relatives and other members of the community in which they
live because of the stigma associated with AIDS.
Nor is Canada immune to this tragic epidemic: 12,119 cases of
AIDS have been reported so far, including 116 paediatric cases of
children under the age of 15. Most have died. These cases are
full-blown AIDS. The numbers of HIV-infected persons in
Canada is much higher, and many of these are teenagers. Those
at greatest risk are street kids, gay youth, aboriginal youth and
some immigrant youth. However, when we realize that
41 per cent of grade 1l students admit to being sexually active
without protection, we need to recognize that the risk is more
widespread than we would like to admit.
Honourable senators, it is tempting to turn away from this
terrible disease. It seems so intractable. What can we do? Rather
than wring our hands. we should join them with others. When we
ratified the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, we
undertook to share responsibility for the health of the world's
children, including our own.
There is a number of things we can do. First, we must keep
ourselves informed. Then we must promote awareness in others
and support efforts at prevention. At home and abroad are many
organizations on the front line we can help - organizations like
UNICEF and Save the Children. In Canada, the Inter-Agency
Coalition on AIDS and Development, a network of Canadian
NGOs, AIDS service organizations and government agencies
seeks to provide greater understanding of how to address the
socio-economic and child welfare problems that emerge as the
epidemic progresses.
Honourable senators, we must not give up on this issue. The
AIDS pandemic is possibly the greatest health crisis the world
will be facing as it enters the new millennium. Eventually it will
affect us all, as increasing numbers of young people are felled in
the prime of life. The World Health Organization has asked us to
use World AIDS Day to show solidarity. Let us respond.

¡ Senator Pearson

1

ROUTINE PROCEEDINGS
EXCISE TAX ACT
INCOME TAX ACT
BILL TO AMEND-REPORT OF COMMITTEE

Hon. Michael Kirby, Chairman of the Standing Senate
Committee on Banking, Trade and Commerce, presented the
following report:
Tuesday. December 5, 1995
The Standing Senate Committee on Banking, Trade and
Commerce has the honour to present its
TWENTY-SIXTH REPORT
Your Committee, to which was referred the Bill C-103,
An Act to amend the Excise Tax Act and the Income Tax
Act, has, in obedience to its Order of Reference of Tuesday,
November 7, 1995, examined the said bill and has agreed to
report the same with one amendment:
Page 6, Clause 1: Replace line 17, on page 6, with the
following:
"on the day this Act is assented to, a particular number
orRespectfully submitted,
MICHAEL KIRBY
Chairian
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, when shall this
report be taken into consideration?
On motion of Senator Kirby, report placed on Orders of the
Day for consideration at the next sitting of the Senate.
THE ESTIMATES, 1995-96
REPORT OF NATIONAL FINANCE COMMITTEE ON SUPPLEMENTARY
ESTIMATES (A) PRESENTED AND PRINTED AS APPENDIX

Hon. Lowell Murray: Honourable senators, I have the honour
to present the nineteenth report of the Standing Senate
Committee on National Finance. This report concerns the
Supplementary Estimates (A), 1995-96.
I ask that the report be printed as an appendix to the Minutes of
the Proceedings of the Senate of this day and that it form part of
the permanent record of this house.

December 5, 1995

2399

SENATE DEBATES

2399

SENATE DER AIES

December 5, 1995

ELECTORAL BOUNDARIES
READJUSTMENT BILL, 1995

The Hon. the Speaker: Is it agreed, honourable senators?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.

NOTICE OF MOTION TO INSTRUCT LEGAL AND CONSTITUTIONAL
AFFAIRS COMMITTEE TO TABLE FINAL REPORT

(For text of report, see Appendix to today's Minutes of the

Proceedings of the Senate.)
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, when shall this
report be taken into consideration?
On motion of Senator Murray, report placed on the Orders of
the Day for consideration at the next sitting of the Senate.
ADJOURNMENT
Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourable senators, with leave of the Senate,
and notwithstanding rule 58(1)(h), I move:
That when the Senate adjourns today, it do stand
adjourned until Wednesday, December 6, 1995 at one thirty
o'clock in the afternoon.
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, is leave
granted?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Motion agreed to.
QUEBEC
RECOGNITION AS DISTINCT SOCIETY-NOTICE OF MOTION

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, I give notice that on Wednesday,
December 6, I will move that:
Whereas the people of Quebec have expressed the desire
for recognition of Quebec's distinct society;
(1) the Senate recognize that Quebec is a distinct society
within Canada;
(2) the Senate recognize that Quebec's distinct society
includes its French-speaking majority, unique culture and
civil law tradition;
(3) the Senate undertake to be guided by this reality; and
(4) the Senate encourage all components of the legislative
and executive branches of government to take note of this
recognition and be guided in their conduct accordingly.

Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourable senators, pursuant to rule 58(1)(f), I
give notice that on Wednesday, December 6, 1995, I will move:
That it be an instruction of this House to the Standing
Senate Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs that
no later than Wednesday, December 13, 1995, it present its
final report to the Senate on the Message from the House of
Commons, dated June 20, 1995, and on the motion of the
Honourable Senator Graham dated June 28, 1995, regarding
Bill C-69, An Act to provide for the establishment of
electoral boundaries commissions and the readjustment of
electoral boundaries.
PEARSON INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT
AGREEMENTS BILL
NOTICE OF MOTION TO INSTRUCT LEGAL AND CONSTITUTIONAL
AFFAIRS COMMITTEE TO TABLE FINAL REPORT

Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourable senators, pursuant to rule 58(1)(f), I
give notice that on Wednesday, December 6, 1995, I will move:
That it be an instruction of this House to the Standing
Senate Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs that
no later than Wednesday, December 13, 1995, it present its
final report to the Senate on the motion and the Message
referred to it on October 5, 1994, relating to certain
amendments to Bill C-22, An Act respecting certain
agreements concerning the redevelopment and operation of
Terminals 1 and 2 at Lester B. Pearson International Airport.
[Translation]

NATIONAL FINANCE
COMMITrEE AUTHORIZED TO MEET DURING SITTING OF SENATE

Hon. Loweil Murray: Honourable senators, with leave of the
Senate and notwithstanding rule 59(1)(), I move, seconded by
the Honourable Senator Simard:
That the Standing Senate Committee on National Finance
have the power to sit at four o'clock in the afternoon today,
Tuesday, December 5, 1995, even though the Senate may
then be sitting, and that rule 96(4) be suspended in relation
thereto.
The Hon. the Speaker: Is leave granted, honourable senators?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Motion agreed to.

[English]

GUN CONTROL LEGISLATION
PRESENTATION OF PETITION

Hon. John Lynch-Staunton (Leader of the Opposition):
Honourable senators, although Bill C-68 is no longer before us, I
wish to present a petition which I received after the vote on the
bill was taken. It is signed by 77 citizens from Northern Ontario
who ask that the Senate not support Bill C-68.
[Translation]

QUESTION PERIOD
CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENTS
DISTRIBUTION OF VETO POWERSTATUS OF BRITISH COLUMBIA-GOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. Marcel Prud'homme: Honourable senators, yesterday
the House of Commons read for the second time Bill C-110, an
Act respecting constitutional amendments, which was referred to
the Standing Committee on Justice and Legal Affairs of the
House of Commons.
Having always brought to the attention of my friends the
importance of Canadian harmony, when I sat in the House of
Commons

place. They are just commencing their hearings. I think we will
need to keep an eye on that committee as they proceed with their
deliberations.
Senator Prud'homme: Honourable senators, the Leader of
the Govemment in the Senate sits in cabinet. She also sits in the
national Liberal caucus, which will be meeting tomorrow. Would
she kindly relay to her cabinet colleagues, and to her colleagues
in the national Liberal caucus, that some members of the Senate
would like to see the bill amended during the committee study,
adding a veto for British Columbia?
Senator Fairbairn : Honourable senators, I am sure that
members in the other place read the Debates of the Senate. They
will be aware of my honourable friend's views, as well as the
views of others. Of course I could not - and would not comment on anything that might go on in either the cabinet circle
or within the Liberal caucus.
Senator Prud'homme: If there were discussion in the
national Liberal caucus tomorrow on this issue, would the
minister at least relay to her colleagues that this matter was
raised today in the Senate?
Senator MacEachen: Why do you not return to the fold,
Marcel?
Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators, as we all know,
discussions within caucuses are, perhaps, the most private of ail
discussions. Parliament Hill is a small community. I am sure that
the views of my honourable friend and others are known and
noted. We will keep an eye on the issue as it unfolds.

TRANSPORT
[English]
Having made many speeches on the unity of Canada, I will not
repeat them all during Question Period. However, I have come to
the conclusion that to have a better, more harmonious country,
there should be a veto for British Columbia. I have always felt
that Canada is composed of five regions. Therefore, each of the
five regions should have a veto. What is given to one does not
take anything away from the others. It is a recognition of facts.
Is it the intention of the government to allow amendments to
Bill C-I 10, the study of which starts today? I have been told that
the bill will be given a rather quick study in committee in order
to return it early to the House of Commons for third reading,
after which it will be sent to the Senate. Of course. when the bill
reaches the Senate, we will have more to say about it.
Is it the intention of the government to allow committee
members to present amendments at this stage pertaining to a veto
for the province of British Columbia?

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, I understand the concern of my honourable
friend. However, he will appreciate that I cannot predict or
speculate about what might happen in a committee of the other

SEARCH AND RESCUE HELICOPTER REPLACEMENT PROGRAMPURCHASE OF UNITS WITHOUT TENDERGOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. Gerald J. Comeau: Honourable senators, my question is
for the minister. On Saturday, this past weekend, the urgency of
replacing the Sea King helicopters once again became evident
during a dramatic rescue off the Atlantic coast. A commendation
should go out to our armed forces for the dramatic rescue they
accomplished.
We now learn that the federal government is not holding an
open bidding process for the selection of the replacement
helicopters. Instead, the government is looking to purchase
American-built Sikorsky Sea Hawk helicopters without going to
tender. The rationale is that the government would get this
equipment at under $1 billion, thereby freeing up money to buy
four British submarines. Would the minister please confirm to
this chamber that her government is actually considering not
going to an open bidding process to make such a purchase?

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, to my honourable friend. I will take that
question as notice.

December 5, 1995

December 5. 1995

SENATE DEBATES

2401
2401

SENATE DEBATES

SEARCH AND RESCUE HELICOPTER REPLACEMENT
PROGRAM-SUITABILITY AND SAFETY
0F REPLACEMENT UNITS-GOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. Gerald J. Comeau: Honourable senators, as a member
of cabinet, the minister must also be aware of the safety concernis
regarding some of the limitations of this equiprnent that her
governiment is preparing to, purchase. The majority of a shipboard
helicopter's flying time occurs over open water. The Sea Hawk
has been proven to, be unable to stay afloat in the water for three
minutes after shut-down. Given these limitations, can the
minister confirm that her govemnment has actually minirnized
that requirement for the new purchase - in other words,
downgraded it from essential to desirable to fit the Sea Hawk's
limitation? Also, are she and her colleagues in cabinet actually
willing to put the lives of our armed forces at risk by purchasing
unsafe equipment in order to strike a good deal and to get the
subrnarines?
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, te, my honourable friend, the answer to the
latter part of his question is, "definitely not." Obviously, it is the
position of the governrnent that it will be making these purchases
with exactly the opposite in mind - that is, to ensure the safety
of the people who operate the helicopters and, as well, the best
possible resuits for those who have need of them.
I arn a little puzzled by my honourable colleague's comments
in that it has been my understanding that the competition for this
purchase will be open to any bidder who can meet the
specifications required. However, I will check to see if there has
been any change. I know that interest in this subject has been
expressed in the media but, as far as 1 arn aware, the situation has
not changed.
Finally, I would like to express, I amn sure, on behaîf of
everyone in this chamber, very hearty and heart-felt
congratulations to the crew of the helicopter and indeed the crew
of HMCS Calgary, which 1 had the distinct honour of
commissioning last June, for a very successful mission. They
have done a splendid job. It is quite uplifting to see the speed and
the tenacity with which they handled what could have been an
extrernely tragic situation. Lt was a fine job, and 1 arn sure we
would aIl want to congratulate them.
Senator Comean: Honourable senators, 1 simply want to be
absolutely sure that there will be a cornpletely open bidding
process. I want to be absolutely sure that this will not be a
non-bidded purchase.
Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators, to my knowledge,
the govemment has made that quite clear. I will check on that
matter but, te, the best of my knowledge, bids will be called for
and, as I said earlier, are open to any bidder who meets the

specifications of the requirements. 1do not believe there bas been
any change on that, but 1 will check.
EMPLOYMENT
FLUCTUATIONS IN JOB CREATION STATISTICSSITUATION IN QUEBEC GOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. Fernand Roberge: Honourable senators. employment
figures for the rnonth of November are quite disturbing. A net
total of 64,000 jobs disappeared. Those 64,000 jobs were Iost, if
you exclude the growth in part-tirne employment. In the pasi
12 months, the Canadian economy generated only 4 1,000 new
jobs, compared to an average of 189,000 new jobs per year over
the past decade. That is not enough to give jobs to the young
people now coming into the labour force. In fact, the number of
youths aged 15 to 24 with jobs is down by 69,000 over this past
year. The youth unemployrnent rate stands at 15.2 per cent.
While the governrnent likes to talk about the infrastructure
program. Canada has 5 1,000 fewer jobs in construction, less than
a year ago.
I find these figures quite disturbing. Does the governiment have
an explanation for what is happening in the job market?
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, Senator Roberge will know that in the past
two years there has been a very high level of job creation in this
country. There is no question that the figures that came out just a
few days ago were disappointing in terms of the fall in
ernployment in November, which declined in terrns of fuli-time
ernployment but increased in terms of part-time employment. At
any rate, the industries that were most affected in this area were
goods-producing industries. service industries, as the honourable
senator would know. The indicators are that the economy is not
moving as swiftly as any of us would wish. Despite the
employment decline in November, the average level of
employment for the past two months is at 0.7 per cent, which on
an annual basis is above its third quarter level - not much, but a
bit above. If there is one hopeful sign, it is the increase in the
help-wanted index across this country.
Honourable senators, having said ail that, the statistics are
deeply distressing. Because of the increase on the one hand and
the decrease on the other hand, we are not seeing a change in the
unernployment percentage in Canada. The rate has to be of great
concern to aIl of us. It certainly is to the governiment, which is
why it is putting a continued emphasis not just on job-creation
measures but also on efforts to help Canadians. For example,
training, retraining and skill developrnent are in some of the new
measures that have been put on the table by the Minister of
Hurnan Resources Developrnent. The country is rnaking a
distinct effort, and the government along with it, to get
Canadians working and to a level where they can be competitive
in the job market. This is very much at the heart of the
govemment's agenda.

Senator Roberge: Honourable

senators,

1 have

a

supplementary question on Quebec, wbere the figures are even
more disturbing. In November 2,000 jobs were lost. Compared to
one year ago. employment is up by only 2.000 jobs. Eleven per
cent of the labour force is without work. and for young people.
the rate is 18.7 per cent. In the last 12 months,
25,000 manufacturing jobs have disappeared in Quebec. In view
of those figures. is the government prepared to take new
measures to deal with the continuing problem of bigb
unemployment, both in Quebec and the rest of Canada?

Senator Fairbairn: The goverfiment is constantly attempting
to act in one particular area of which this bouse is well aware,
and that is our economic situation generally, including the
control of our deficit, and the keeping down of our interest rates.
One of the best ways of increasing jobs for Canadians, and for
young Canadians in particular, is to remain very firm on the
targets we have outlined.

0

15

A Liberal Party propaganda document was released Iast week
during a Liberal fund-raising dinner. It outlines the policy
achievements of the Liberal Party. It did not. however. say
anything about following up onl the Liberal Party of Canada's
promise to eliminate the GST.
My question is this: Can the Leader of the Govemment report
on the status of negotiations between her goverfiment and the
provinces that could lead, if flot to the elimination of the GST, at
Ieast to a major change in this tax?
[En glish]

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, as 1 have said before in this bouse, the
Minister of Finance bas been engaged in such negotiations over a
period of time, and bis discussions with the provinces on the
subject of' the GST and its barmonization are a con[inuing
priority. He is stili bard at it.

Senator Simard: Do you suppose it will take less than two

The question of youtb employment, and the entry of' young
people into the job market, is deeply disturbing. As my
honourable friend is probably aware. over recent montbs special
programs have been introduced with a view to training young
people for the job market so that tbey can gain the kind of
experience that will permit themn to enter and prosper in that
market. I arn sure continued efforts will be made along that fine.
1 know wben my honourable friend reads the statistics that are
in bis possession. any words that I could say to bim would not be
sufficient. However. the fundamental answer 1 wilI give him is
that. yes, this situation is of' incredible concern to the Canadian
goverfiment. We wiIl be working in every way we can to
alleviate this situation. and give our young people the best
opportunity to acquire the experience and the background to
enable them to enter the job market.
[Translation]

NATIONAL FINANCE
GO0DS AND SERVICES TAX-STATUS 0F INTERG0VERNMENTAL
NEGOTIATIONS GOVERNMENT POSITION

years?

Senator Fairbairn: I would say to my honourable friend that
it might take a littie bit of time and a great deal of patience. The
Minister of Finance is determined that be will achieve bis goals
on this particular and very thorny issue. and that be wilI take the
time to, get it right. That is what be is attempting to do.
00005 AND SERVICES lAXTIMINGO0F RESIGNATION 0F DEPUTV PRIME MINISTER

Hon Jean-Maurice Simard: By way of supplementary. if bas
been 778 days since Sheila Copps. the Deputy Prime Minister,
made the following statement:
I bave already said personally and directly that if the GST is
not abolished l'Il resign. 1 don't know bow clear you can
get. 1 think you gotta be accountable for the things that you
say you're going to do, and you have to, deliver on them.
Given that the Liberal goverfiment bas already broken its
promise to Canadians to abolish the GST. when can we expect
the Deputy Prime Minister to deliver on ber personal
commitment to resign? To put it another way. if she will flot
resign, will Mr. Chrétien undertake to, fire ber?

Hon. Jean-Maurice Simard: Honourable senators, 1 have two

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):

questions. The first one is easy. It is my way of sympathizing
with the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I amn referring
to the difficulty she had in responding to the previous question.
She quoted two-year-old statistics. She mentioned the job
increases of two years ago. She quoted percentages. The fact is
that it is very dificult tor the govemnment to explain its inaction
and the resu its of its inaction. The measures she mentioned
earlier will înake it easier for ber to provide answers the next
time questions dealing witb unemployment and employment
statistics are put to ber. That was my preamble.

Honourable seilaturs, 1 wish to, assure my bonourable friend that
the Minister of Finance is pursuing the question of replacing the
GST. He indicates to me that there bas been some progress on
that issue. That is very encouraging.
1 amn sure that the Minister of Finance would wish me to assure
my bonourable friend as weIl that he will be acting in sucb a way
that no thougbt need bc given of the Deputy Prime Minister
having to resign: we will aIl be celebrating the fultilment of our
goal.

December 5, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

GOODS AND SERVICES TAX-UNDERTAKING OF PRIME MINISTER
ON DEADLINE ON REPLACEMENT- GOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. Lowell Murray: Honourable senators, by way of
supplementary, it is good to know that the Minister of Finance is
so encouraged by the progress being made on this matter,
because he is facing a deadline. The deadline was set by the
Right Honourable Prime Minister quite recently when he

undertook that Mr. Martin would bring in a replacement tax for
the GST in his next budget, expected in February. Would the

Leader of the Govemment confirm that undertaking now?

2403

Senator Murray: My honourable friend referred to the
Canada Pension Plan, which is a separate issue. For greater
certainty, when she is asking the Prime Minister's Office for
confirmation of this undertaking, my understanding of his
commitment is that it was with regard to the recipients of the Old
Age Security and Guaranteed Income Supplement.
Senator Fairbairn: I believe my honourable friend is correct.
[Translation]

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):

HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT

Honourable senators, I would not begin to speculate, even in the

broadest way, about what might or might not be in the upcoming
budget. Suffice it to say that the Minister of Finance is working
away. From the moment that he took on the job, he bas been of
the view that he had a couple of alternatives with respect to the
GST and its replacement. He could either do it fast, or he could
do it right. He is working along the latter track. Although an
agreement with the provinces is not yet in sight, I would repeat
that he is expressing encouraging progression.
Senator Murray: Honourable senators, I was not asking my
friend to speculate on what might be in the next budget. I was
asking her to confirm the undertaking given by the Prime
Minister with regard to the GST. She may wish to consult

Mr. Chrétien on this matter.
OLD AGE SECURITY-UNDERTAKING OF PRIME MINISTER
DURING REFERENDUM-GOVERNMENT POSITION
Hon. Lowell Murray: While the honourable leader is doing

that, would she also confirm the undertaking which the Prime
Minister gave during the recent referendum to the effect that, in

the forthcoming budget, Mr. Martin would not be taking any
action which would negatively affect old age pensions?
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, I have gone as far as I want to go with

respect to the progress being made on the GST. I wholeheartedly
support the Prime Minister and his views in relation to having a
replacement for this tax as quickly as possible.
On the question of seniors, I believe the Prime Minister and
others have made it very clear that nothing will be done to cause
any concern to seniors currently receiving pensions.
•

UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE REFORM-MEETING BETWEEN

REPRESENTATIVES OF FEDERAL AND NEW BRUNSWICK
GOVERNMENTS-REQUEST FOR TABLING OF DOCUMENTATION

Hon. Jean-Maurice Simard: Honourable senators, my
question is for the Leader of the Govemment. I am asking her, in
fact. to table all documents exchanged between the Govemment
of New Brunswick and the federal government regarding the
reform of unemployment insurance or employment insurance,
which is the term used in the document tabled last week by the
minister, Mr. Axworthy. Could the Leader of the Government
undertake to table these documents within a week, preferably
before the Christmas break?
I especially request the tabling of the documents submitted and
discussed by the New Brunswick government during Premier
McKenna's meeting last week with Prime Minister Chrétien and
the federal and provincial ministers to address the New
Brunswick government's fears relating to the content of the
proposed reforms, which, in Mr. McKenna's opinion, would have
a negative impact on New Brunswick's seasonal workers in
particular, and on Atlantic Canada in general.
[English]

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, I have absolutely no knowledge of the
documents of which Senator Simard speaks. I can certainly look
into his question. The premiers of the Atlantic provinces have
been very helpful in expressing their views and offering their
advice. If there is anything further I can do to with my friend's
request, I will do it.

(15o)

As my honourable friend knows, the five-year review is
proceeding on the Canada Pension Plan. The last budget of the
Minister of Finance indicated that a public paper would be

produced, after public discussion had taken place, on the
question of the sustainability of the Canada Pension Plan. We
want to guarantee for seniors the future security they deserve.
During the referendum, the Prime Minister and others
commented on the security of current pensioners. I have no

reason to believe that there is any change at all.

THE ENVIRONMENT
REVIEW OF CANADIAN ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION ACTREPORT OF COMMONS COMMITTEE-GOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. Janis Johnson: Honourable senators, on June 20, 1995,
the fifth report of the Standing House of Commons Committee
on the Environment and Sustainable Development entitled, "It's
About Our Health - Towards Pollution Prevention," was
presented in the House of Commons by Charles Caccia, the

chairman of the committee. That House committee undertook an
extensive review of the Canadian Environmental Protection Act,
the results of' which are in this report. The report contains
141 recommendations and is the result of 12 montbs of hearings
beld in Ottawa and across Canada.
The key to the report is a cal! for more aggressive control and
preventative use of toxins in Canada. The committee also
believes that a strong federal role is required in the area of
environmental protection for the management of toxic substances
and the setting of national standards.
Honourable senators. in the House of Commons on June 20.
the minister said that the usual time for the federal govemment
to respond to such reports is 150 days. With regard to a response
to the report, Minister Copps also said the following:
I hope to, be able to do that in less than haif that time.
We are now welI into December and, according to her
comments. the federal government should have responded to the
report by now. We have heard nothing; at Ieast. I have not been
able to find anything. In tact, the standing committee's report
sbould have been answered by November 18.
Does the Leader of the Government have any idea just when
the government intends to respond formally to this most critical
issue?
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators. I cannot give my bonourable friend a date.
but 1 know that the Minister of the Environment is very aware of
the need to get the response out and is working very hard on
doing that. As my honourable friend noted, the report is
fairly massivcý it is t'rom a House committee and has
141 recommendations, ail of them important. The minister and
ber colleagues are undoubtedly giving their most careful
attention to providing a coordinated response to, the report.
Senator Johnson: Would it be possible for the Leader of the
Government to find out for me wbether they intend to act, once
they have responded, on the toxins situation witb any kind of
legisiation?
Senator Fairbairn: 1 will certainly endeavour to do that.
[Translation]

Instead of reducing premiums for employers and employees.
why does the minister prefer to make the provinces solely
responsible for manpower training, while providing that contracts
wiIl have to be negotiated between the fedieral governrnent and
the provinces'?
Does the minister bave an explanation? It seems to me that the
issue of manpower training sbould be straightforward. Why not
take this opportunity to deal with the matter once and l'or aIl?

[Etiglisli]
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators. on an issue as important and as coniplex as
this one. there will always be disagreement on the best route for
the government. In this case, as be recognizes. there will be
premium reduction but it wiIl not be to the level tbat my
bonourable friend would wish.
a <151o
The minister is embarking on a course of employment
measures that would involve training, skills development and, in
some cases. wage supplements because. over the last two years.
he bas consulted beavily with the public. the provinces, the
private sector and tbe labour sector and tound that one of' the
most fundamental dilticulties in our worktorce today is the speed
witb wbich the market is cbanging and the capability to ensure
tbat our workforce bas the ability, flexibility and adaptability to
change as rapidly.
We bave a real problem in Canada. Part of it is in an area
whicb is of concern to me; that is. literacy and aIl tbat goes with
it. Anotber problem we have in Canada is tbat the workforce in
place today is tbe worklorce upon wbich we will be depending
for tbe next 20 years. Tbis government believes tbat cooperative
measures must be taken witb other governments. the private
sector and individuals in cboosing tbe rigbt kind of training tbey
know they wilI need. That is an important component of any
employment insurance program that is to take this country into
the next century.

ATLANTIC CANADA OPPORTUNITIES AGENCY

HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT
UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE REFORM-DIVISION 0F
RESPONSIBILITY FOR JOB TRAINING GOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. Roch Bolduc: My question is directed to tbe Leader of
the Govemment in the Senate. Mr. Axworthy recently tabled bis
bill on unemployment insurance reform. Under the present
sebeme. a 4-per-cent premium is paid by the employer and a
3-per-cent premium is contributed by the employe. for a total of
7 per cent. If we include workers* compensation as welI. this

I Senatoi-JoIlfl

amounts to 10 or 11 per cent of the total payroll. This increases
production costs by the same amount and deprives employees of
a certain amount of money.

.01

AUDITOR GENERAES REPORT-EFFICACY 0F INFRASTRUCTURE
JOB STATISTICS GOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. Donald H. Oliver: Honourable senators. my question is
for the Leader ot tbe Govemment in tbe Senate. Last montb. the
Auditor General said that the Atlantic Canada Opportunities
Agency nceds to improve the way it measures and reports results.
The Auditor General said. in a news release. that bis concernis
focused on the accuracy of the estimated jobs created and
maintained, and the appropriateness of' underlying assumptions
used by the agency.

December 5,

1995

2405

SENATE DEBATES

2405

SENATE DEBATES

December 5, 1995

My question concerns, not the job-creation record of ACOA,
but another program. The government is claiming that its
infrastructure program has created 100,000 jobs. This is in spite
of the fact that in November, there were 51,000 fewer
construction jobs than one year ago. Given the way the ACOA
job-creation numbers were called into question, can the
government leader assure us that the infrastructure job figure
would stand up to the Auditor General's scrutiny?
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government): I would
certainly hope so, honourable senators. My colleague the
President of the Treasury Board, under whom the infrastructure
program exists, bas been monitoring it very carefully from the
day it began. I can consuit him for reassurance on the figures
which have been published.
MANITOBA
FEDERAL ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
OF FORESTRY PROJECTS-GOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. Mira Spivak: Honourable senators, last May I raised the
issue of proposals to cut down large portions of the boreal forest
in western Manitoba and eastern Saskatchewan to supply timber
for wood products plants. Some of those forests are in the
beautiful Duck Mountain Provincial Park. Manitoba allows
logging in provincial parks. I also asked whether the federal
minister was considering a federal environment assessment
review of these projects.
The Minister of the Environment has now said publicly that
the government may intervene with its own environmental
review. This is good news. However, I am most concerned about
the minister's timing because environmental advocates and
others are caught in a jurisdictional hiatus, the very thing which
the CEAA, in the wake of the Rafferty-Alameda dispute, was
thought to prevent.
Will the govemment leader ask her colleague whether she will
soon state the federal government's intent and its timetable on
this issue? Also, what is the government's plan for the future,
particularly in Manitoba, with regard to joint federal-provincial
review panels to prevent duplication and the conducting of
proper reviews? Manitobans are concerned that there bas not
been a proper review.
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, I shall be pleased to speak to my colleague
and to any other colleagues involved in this matter. It may be that
the Minister of Natural Resources has an interest in it as well.
Senator Spivak: Could the Leader of the Govemment convey
the reply in a timely fashion? A number of people in Manitoba
are concerned about this issue, and I should like to be able to
give them some information.
Senator Fairbairn: I will be pleased to do so.

ORDERS OF THE DAY
AUDITOR GENERAL ACT
BILL TO AMEND-SECOND READING-DEBATE ADJOURNED

Hon. Colin Kenny moved the second reading of Bill C-83, to
amend the Auditor General Act.
He said: Honourable senators, Bill C-83 has far-reaching
implications for how federal goveriment departments will define
their business and make their decisions. It explicitly integrates
environmental and sustainable development considerations into
the work of the Auditor General. It establishes the position of
Commissioner of Environment and Sustainable Development
within the office of the Auditor General, and it requires federal
departments to prepare sustainable development strategies.
This bill goes to the heart of federal government planning and
decision making. It will ensure that decisions made by federal
government departments are sustainable development decisions,
whether they be decisions on the management of buildings and
operations or decisions on federal policies and programs. This
means that the environment and sustainable development will not
be taken into account as an afterthought after the real decisions
have been made. Rather, environmental, social and economic
considerations will be integrated into all federal planning and
decision making.
Bill C-83 fulfils the commitment to establish an environmental
auditor general and will be a catalyst for converging
environmental and economic agendas across all government
departments. Bill C-83 incorporates the environment and
sustainable development into the Auditor General Act. It gives
the Auditor General the explicit legal mandate to take into
account environmental effects, alongside the traditional
considerations of economy, effectiveness and efficiency, in his
general auditing duties. It will ensure that, regardless of who the
Auditor General is, the environment and sustainable
development will be integrated into his or her audits of
government spending.
Bill C-83 also creates the position of Commissioner of the
Environment and Sustainable Development in the office of the
Auditor General. By situating the commissioner in the Auditor
General's office, the government has shown that it means
business, that it is not afraid to be held up to public scrutiny for
its performance in integrating the environment and sustainable
development into all of its planning decisions.
(1520)

The work of the Auditor General's office will benefit from the
sustainable development presence of the commissioner, and the
commissioner will benefit from the auditing expertise within the
office of the Auditor General. The environment and sustainable
development will be integrated in the work of the office of the

Auditor General. This kind of integration is what sustainable
development is all about. In effect, the commissioner will be the
Auditor General's right-hand person on environment and
sustainable development issues. He or she will assist the Auditor
General in performing his general auditing duties, and he or she
will be required to report annually on the government's
environmental sustainable development performance.
Through the general auditing duties of the Auditor General
and through the establishment of the commissioner, this bill will
ensure that federal govemment departments are held up to public
scrutiny for their sustainable development performance. It will
do more than that. This bill will be instrumental in moving
Canada toward sustainable development. The govemment must
be more active and forward looking if it is to make sustainable
development a real practice in all its activities.
Bill C-83 addresses this need. It requires departments to
prepare sustainable development strategies within two years of
this legislation coming into force. These strategies must be
pragmatic and results-oriented. They should establish concrete
objectives and action plans to achieve these objectives.
In a very real sense, every minister should be a minister of
sustainable development. They will also establish benchmarks
against which the Auditor General and commissioner can assess
the sustainable development performance of federal departments.
Departments will be required to update their strategies every
three years as they learn from experience and as their
understanding of what it means to put sustainable development
into practice grows. The commissioner is required to monitor and
report annually on how well federal govemments are faring on
the extent to which they are implementing their sustainable
development action plans. and on the extent to which these
action plans are effective in achieving departmental sustainable
development objectives.
The govemment is committed to encouraging Canadians in the
development of federal policies. Departments will consult with
interested parties while developing and updating their sustainable
development strategies.
Bill C-83 will also ensure that Canadians continue to have a
voice. It will authorize the Auditor General to forward petitions
from the public on environmental matters to the responsible
ministers. Ministers will be required to respond to these petitions
within a specific time frame. If they cannot, they must personally
notify the petitioner in writing - a rare provision in law. The
commissioner will monitor and report annually on the number,
subject-matter and status of petitions received by ministers.
Honourable senators, the concept of sustainable development
has been embraced throughout the world. It is not a difficult
concept to embrace. Who can argue that social, environmental
and economic considerations should not be considered in
decisions that will have an effect across society? Who could
argue that the synergies between a healthy environment and
economic prosperity should not be realized?

Senator Kenny]

What is more difficult is to turn sustainable development into
operational practice. This is what Bill C-83 is intended to do. The
commissioner created under this bill will hold the federal
government up to public scrutiny for its progress in making the
shift to sustainable development in all its planning and
decision making.
On motion of Senator Spivak, debate adjourned.

BRITISH COLUMBIA TREATY COMMISSION ACT
SECOND READING-DEBATE ADJOURNED

Hon. Len Marchand moved the second reading of Bill C-107,
respecting the establishment of the British Columbia Treaty
Commission.
He said: Honourable senators, the legislation before us today
creates a statutory framework for the British Columbia Treaty
Commission. It is a response to a very old question. It helps to
complete some of the saddest unfinished business of our country.
As we approach the 21st century, the time has come to
complete the work of the 19th century. The time has come to
resolve the land question of British Columbia's First Nations. By
providing a forum for negotiating a settlement, this bill will do
just that.
Honourable senators will know that the province of British
Columbia is unique in a number of ways, not the least of which is
the historic relationship between First Nations and the
governments of that province. Unlike many provinces where
ownership of land and resources was clarified through treaties,
British Columbia signed very few such agreements. Only a
handful of treaties were signed in the pre-Confederation period,
and since then, only Treaty 8. covering First Nations in the Peace
River area, has been signed. As a result, issues which have long
been settled elsewhere remain unresolved in British Columbia.
As we often say among ourselves, "We have no treaties; we did
not cede the land in any way, nor did we lose the land in any
wars."
Few treaties have been signed, honourable senators, because,
historically, the Government of British Columbia has taken the
view that whatever rights to land and resources First Nations may
once have had were extinguished long ago. The consequence of
that position was decades of legal acrimony, decades of
uncertainty and decades of distraction from other important
issues.
That situation began to change in 1990 when the Govemment
of British Columbia reversed its long-held position and opened
the way to resolving these issues. Following on the British
Columbia government's decision, the Government of Canada
acted quickly to advance the process. Later that same year, both
govemments and the B.C. First Nations agreed to establish a task
force to make recommendations on the mandate and process for
treaty negotiations. Incidentally, Bill C-107 is essentially the
same bill as Minister Siddon of the previous government had
ready to present.

December 5, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

By June of 1991, the British Columbia Claims Task Force had
released its report. One of its key recommendations was the
creation of an arm's length British Columbia Treaty Commission.
In the ten months that followed, representatives of Canada,
British Columbia and the First Nations Summit negotiated the
agreement which established that commission.
On September 21, 1992, both the federal and provincial
governments joined with the First Nations Summit leadership in
signing the British Columbia Treaty Commission Agreement.
One of the terms of that agreement was a commitment to
establish the legislation.
In May of 1993, both the First Nations Summit and the
province fulfilled their part of that commitment. Now the time
has come for the federal government to honour its part of that
bargain.
The mandate of the treaty commission is straightforward. It is
to facilitate, not negotiate, modern-day treaties. Its main
functions are to assess the readiness of parties to negotiate,
allocate negotiating funding to First Nations groups, assist parties
to obtain dispute resolution services and to monitor and report on
the status of negotiations.
The British Columbia Treaty Commission consists of five
commissioners. Two are nominated by the First Nations Summit,
one by the provincial government and one by the Govemment of
Canada. The chief commissioner is appointed by all three parties.
The First Nations Summit includes all British Columbia First
Nations which have agreed to participate in the commission's
treaty and negotiation process. The summit provides a forum for
these First Nations to meet and discuss treaty issues. Not only did
the summit assist in the creation of the British Columbia Treaty
Commission itself, it continues to provide direction to the
commission together with the Governments of Canada and
British Columbia.
Honourable senators, I believe the architects of this process
have worked well. It was understood that resolution of these
issues could have an impact on those not party to the
negotiations. A province-wide consultation process has therefore
been established so that interests not represented at the
negotiating table will still have their voices heard.
The process will operate at two levels. The first is the
31-member Treaty Negotiation Advisory Committee which
brings the perspectives of municipalities, business, labour,
fishing, wildlife, agriculture and environmental groups together
in the treaty-making process. The second level brings the diverse
interests of the various regions of British Columbia to bear on the
land claims process. Regional advisory committees are being
struck in each treaty negotiation area so that local voices may be
heard. These committees will work directly with federal and
provincial negotiating teams.
0

(1.530)

I am pleased to note, honourable colleagues, that in the three
years since its creation, the commission has made quite a bit of
progress. To date. 47 First Nations. representing over 70 per cent

2407

of British Columbia's First Nations, have submitted statements of
intent to negotiate. Not all of the bands or First Nations in British
Columbia are a part of this process, but the door is open for them
to join in.
One of the most celebrated cases, the Calder case - he is a
Nisga'a - is outside of the process. However, we are hoping and
praying that the Nisga'a, the Government of Canada and the
Government of British Columbia will reach an agreement very
soon, and that it will set a precedent for the rest of us to follow.
Honourable senators, settling land and resource issues will
create an environment for investment and increased economic
activity. It will send a clear signal. A treaty settlement will
provide a land base for many First Nations and, with that land
base, a proper foundation upon which to build strong,
self-sufficient communities. It will allow First Nations to become
involved in a number of economic activities presently closed to
them, such as commercial mining, forestry and fishing. It is
hoped and expected that this revitalized aboriginal economy will
be beneficial to all British Columbians and Canadians.
Honourable senators, the aboriginal community of British
Columbia is very anxious that this bill pass. I ask my colleagues,
especially those on the other side, to expedite it as soon as
possible. We would be very grateful.
On motion of Senator Andreychuk, debate adjourned.
CRIMINAL CODE
BILL TO AMEND-SECOND READING-DEBATE ADJOURNED

Hon. Anne C. Cools moved the second reading of Bill S-13,
to amend the Criminal Code of Canada (abuse of process).
She said: Honourable senators, Bill S-13 seeks to remove
uncertainties in the use of judicial privilege, its exercise and its
extent. It clarifies doubts and upholds the principle that judicial
privilege is not available for barristers' use to mislead, obstruct
or defeat justice itself, or to commit wrongdoing. It responds to
the mounting evidence that certain practices by barristers in
judicial proceedings need correction. The proposed correction is
a Criminal Code sanction, which will define certain behaviours,
activities, conduct and practices of barristers as abuses of process
and codify them as criminal offences.
Honourable senators, courts and civil litigation attempt the just
resolution of dispute. When, as a last resort, Canadians as
litigants tum to the courts in search of a just resolution to their
disputes, they must be assured that their causes will be advanced
judiciously and truthfully, and that court processes will not be
marshalled against them to add greater insult to their already
aggrieved status, either by inflicting malicious injury or inflicting
bankruptcy upon them.
Honourable senators, for generations, integrity was thought to
be an essential element of justice. In the July 1995 Supreme
Court of Canada judgment in the case of Hill v. Church of
Scientology of Toronto. Mr. Justice Peter Cory noted the

importance of integrity and barristers' integrity. He said:

Clients depend on the integrity of lawyers. as do colleagues.
Judges rely upon commitments and undertakings given to
them by counsel. Our whole system of administration of
justice depends upon counsel's reputation lor integrity.

civil justice and civil litigation, one being the use of false
affidavits and false allegations in civil litigation. The Civil
Justice Review's first report devoted a chapter, "Focus on the
Family." to these enormous problems in the practice of family
law and civil litigation. Mr. Justice Blair's report said:

He quoted David Hawreluk's essay "The Lawyer's Duty to
Himself and the Code of Professional Conduct," citing Lord
Birkett that:

Lawyers were criticized for their drafting of lengthy,
damaging, and sometimes unsupportable affidavit material.

The advocate has a duty to his client, a duty to the Court.
and a duty to the State... and he shall be... a man of integrity.

The Review was frequently told about... the often poisonous
nature of lengthy affidavit materials.

That integrity is an essential plank of litigation, and judicial
process is the substance of Bill S-13. Bill S-13 addresses abuses
perpetrated by barristers on the courts, on judicial processes and
on citizens. It amends the Criminal Code to create provisions
aimed at the abuse of process; provisions which will deter
barristers and legal counsel from actions that are contrary to the
interests of justice.

The ugliness of false accusations and falsehood in civil
litigation and family law proceedings is stark. Justice Blair
reported:

Bill S-13 addresses the barristers' violation of their privileges
and their privileged positions as officers of the court and asserts
the duties owed by them to the court as its officers. This bill will
create three new offences in the Criminal Code, making it an
offence for counsel in judicial proceedings to, first, make public
statements outside the tribunal that are known by counsel to be
false or that counsel failed to take reasonable measures to
ascertain were false; second, institute or proceed with
proceedings known by counsel to be brought primarily to
intimidate or injure another person; or, third, knowingly to
deceive or participate in deceiving the tribunal or to rely on false,
deceptive. exaggerated or inflammatory documents.
Honourable senators, the abuses and violations within the
conduct of civil litigation and judicial proceedings are
commanding parliamentary intervention. Bill S-13 is such
intervention.
Our newspapers frequently report on the varied and abundant
problems in the legal profession and the bar. In Toronto, the Law
Society of Upper Canada's problems are featured daily in the
news. On June 24, 1995, a story line in The Toronto Star read,
"Fraud alleged in legal aid lawyers' bills." A June 1995 Law
Society report states that the billings "...are disturbing and in our
view suggest serious fraud." These articles report the problems of
the Immigration Bar, the Law Society and the Legal Aid Plan.
On June 24. 1995, The Toronto Star, writing about the newly
elected treasurer of the Law Society of Upper Canada, Susan
Elliott, said:
...she plans a consultative approach to dealing with the legal
profession's numerous problems.
Honourable senators, last March, the Civil Justice Review,
co-chaired by Mr. Justice Robert Blair and sponsored by the
Attorney General's ministry and the Ontario Court of Justice,
reported. In their examination of the civil justice system of
Ontario. they uncovered enormous problems in the practice of

¡ Senaior Coo1I.l

We were told... that perjury in these affidavits is rampant.
... it is clearly a perception... that such perjury goes
unpunished.
Justice Blair's report addresses the frustration felt by the
public on these questions of false allegations, saying:
Concern and frustration were expressed about the number of
allegations made in affidavits that were not capable of being
substantiated in any way.
Some contents of affidavits... were reported by members of
the public to be damaging forever.
False allegations in child custody and divorce cases now have
attained a state of crisis in the civil justice system in Ontario.
These abuses are not confined to the province of' Ontario. They
are bedeviling civil litigation and the courts of every province of
this land.
0 (154)

Recently, Manitoba's government launched an inquiry into the
matter. On September 3, 1995, the Winnipeg Free Press reported
that:
So many parents falsely accuse their former partners of
child abuse that the government plans a special probe this
fall ...
Two recent judgments, one in the Ontario Court (General
Division) and the other in the Supreme Court of Canada, make
manifest the mischiefs which this bill seeks to correct. The first,
the case of B(D) and B(R) and B(M) n the Children's Aid Society
of Durham Region and Marion Van Den Boonen, was judged by
Mr. Justice Somers in the Ontario Court (General Division) in
1994. On July 13, 1995, I addressed this chamber regarding this
particularly grievous case of Reverend B., an Anglican minister
whose estranged wife, supported by the Children's Aid Society,
during a child custody proceeding. falsely accused Reverend B.
of sexually abusing his two daughters. age 2 and 4.

December 5,

1995

December 5, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

SENATE DEBATES

2409

2409

On exonerating Reverend B., Mr. Justice Somers' judgment
stated:

Mr. Justice Cory spoke strongly to the malicious use of
falsehood to inflict injury within judicial proceedings, saying:

... one can certainly understand the frustration the father
must have felt in this case attempting to deal with
allegations against him which were untrue ...

Scientology's behaviours throughout can only be
characterized as recklessly high-handed, supremely
arrogant, and contumacious. There seems to have been a
continuing, conscious effort on Scientology's part to
intensify and perpetuate its attack on Casey Hill without any
regard for the truth of its allegations.

Justice Somers condemned the treatment of Reverend B., the
plaintiff, by the defendants, Durham Children's Aid Society and
his ex-wife, saying:
While as I have said I do believe that much of the damage
sustained by the Plaintiff was as a result of the machinations
of his former wife, I feel that the Defendants played a strong
and at times heavy handed role in the matter.
After nine years and considerable financial and emotional cost,
Reverend B. was victorious, but the damage to him and his two
little girls is unspeakable. The enormity of this legal and judicial
malignancy is driven home by Mr. Justice Somers, who informed
that the Children's Aid Society, on realizing that they had, in the
society's own words, "backed the wrong horse," and the society,
having declared that the girls were not in need of protection, still
persisted in their false accusations and litigation against
Reverend B. Mr. Justice Somers described this deliberate
persistence in false allegations and the society's actions in this
regard as "utterly unconscionable."
It is an abuse of process when court processes and judicial
proceedings are employed to inflict malicious injury and pain on
individuals for the purpose of advancing another's interest or
obtaining another's advantage during civil litigation. That some
lawyers assist and benefit from such abuses is troubling and a
terrible problem that must be remedied.
The second case, Hill v. Church of Scientology of Toronto in

the Supreme Court of Canada, is a famous libel case involving
the use of false allegations by lawyers Morris Manning, Clayton
Ruby, and Michael Code to defame and destroy Crown
attorney Casey Hill. I addressed the Senate on this case on
November 23, 1995.
In his judgment on this case, Mr. Justice Peter Cory articulated
the court's position and the common law against the use of false
allegations, saying:
To make false statements which are likely to injure the
reputation of another has always been regarded as a serious
offence.
Mr. Justice Cory spoke directly to lawyers' responsibility,
saying:
As an experienced lawyer, Manning ought to have taken
steps to confirm the allegations that were being made....
Manning failed to take either of these reasonable steps. As a
result of this failure ... a qualified privilege which attached
to his remarks was defeated.

Wanton disregard for the truth and the perpetration of deceit
upon the court is the behaviour that this bill seeks to censure: in
short, the behaviour of lawyers Morris Manning, Clayton Ruby,
Michael Code, and countless other counsel. Such ruthlessness
and malice must not wear the protective cloak of justice and
judicial privilege. It must stand naked and be seen for what it is
- unbridled, predatory malice and spitefulness intended to ruin
its prey, psychologically and financially. It is criminal activity
and deserves a place in the Criminal Code of Canada.
On law as a profession, the eminent author Mark Orkin, in his
book Legal Ethics, quotes the Canons of Legal Ethics approved
by the Canadian Bar Association, describing the lawyer as:
... more than a mere citizen. He is a minister of justice, an
officer of the Courts, his client's advocate, and a member of
an ancient, honourable and learned profession. In these
several capacities it is his duty to promote the interests of
the State, serve the cause of justice, maintain the authority
and dignity of the Courts, be faithful to his clients, candid
and courteous in his intercourse with his fellows and true to
himself.
The Court must have ministers; the attorneys are its
ministers.
Moreover, the barrister's oath in Ontario partly reads as
follows:
... nor shall you promote suits upon frivolous pretences. You
shall not pervert the law to favour or prejudice any man, but
in all things shall conduct yourself truly and with integrity.
In fine, the Queen's interest and your fellow citizens' you
shall uphold and maintain according to the constitution and
law of this Province.
Lawyers as ministers of justice and officers of the court hold
and enjoy privilege. Privilege includes solicitor-client privileges,
judicial privilege, both absolute and qualified, that shield
statements made in judicial proceedings and court documents
from civil liability. Privileges are precisely that: exemptions from
the general law.
Parliamentary governance bas always recognized the need to
ensure the proper conduct of lawyers and has always imposed
sanctions for improper conduct. About this, Orkin says:

From its beginnings in England the legal profession was
faced with the problem of maintaining high standards of
moral and ethical conduct on the part of its practitioners. In
the face of ... serious abuses the First Statute of
Westminster, enacted in 1274, imposed sanctions on lawyers
who perpetrated "any manner of deceit or collusion in the
King's Court."
Deceit and fraud upon the court is an old dilemma. It was
commonly held that no lawyer was to resort to false delays or
false witnesses and was never to allege, prefer, or consent to any
corruption, deceit, lie or falsified law. Orkin said:
Not only is a lawyer required affirmatively to uphold the
law; he is also under a duty not to subvert the law.
Honourable senators, the Criminal Code must take cognizance
of the improper conduct of barristers and must uncloak the shield
that this improper conduct uses to shelter itself from scrutiny,
accountability, responsibility, and sanction. Bill S-13, first,
addresses the problem of public statements made by barristers
which are false, and, second, it addresses the problems of deceit
and fraud perpetrated upon the court by barristers.
Previously, the legal profession claimed to be non-commercial
and claimed that the practice of law was a public service. These
claims have foundered. Currently, the practice of law, like most
financial interests, is a commerce, a commercial interest
competing in the marketplace for success, dominance, and
commercial supremacy. Parliament has an obligation to be as
vigilant in its superintendence of this interest as it is of any other
commercial interest. Government and Parliament owe no
obligation to the bar and to barristers guaranteeing them
enormous profits or enormous legal fees.
Moreover, we are told that the profession is self-regulatory and
independent, yet it is well known that the elections of the
benchers of the Law Society of Upper Canada are dominated by
a few large Toronto firms. The law society does not regulate
certain activities of its members. If it did, Clayton Ruby would
have censured his and the actions of his colleagues, Morris
Manning and Michael Code. At the time, Ruby was a bencher
and the Vice-Chairman of the Discipline Committee. In addition,
these members of the law society have a financial interest in the
status quo. The law society does not censure these wrongdoings,
nor will it.

Bill S-13 limits the use of privilege as a defence to civil
liability by barristers in instances of their own wrongdoing in the
conduct of judicial proceedings. It will assist the punishment and
prosecution of wrongdoing perpetrated by barristers. Courtroom
dynamics should be understood. Judges and barristers are joined
by their common membership in the profession. the bar
association, and the law society. Moreover, judges are subject to
discipline by the law society in respect of their own conduct as
members.
Honourable senators, common law evolved barristers'
privileges to support and promote justice based on the premise

[ Senator Cools]

that privileges would not be misused. The trend bas been that the
common law bas expanded bit by bit, case by case, the exercise
and the extent of these privileges. In short, the profession simply
takes what it needs as it needs it. Judges and courts have
summary jurisdiction over the conduct of the barristers as
officers of the court, but their reluctance to exercise this
jurisdiction leaves these questionable behaviours to the law
society, which takes no action. The result is: no censure.
Mr. Justice Blair. in his Civil Justice Review's First Report,
states that the civil justice system is "in a crisis situation."
Bill S-13 addresses a mischief that bas caused this crisis. This
mischief is of a peculiar kind and quality, one that bas been
cultivated by some in the bosom of the profession, caused
sometimes by greed, sometimes by vanity, sometimes ignorance.
It is a disease within the profession, characterized by its
insistence, its persistence, and its unconscionability.
Bill S-13 will criminalize barristers' persistence in the false
allegations after they have been proven to be false and causes the
Criminal Code of Canada, as a statute, to oust an insufficiency in
the common law. It will criminalize the wanton and reckless
disregard of the truth in the use of false allegations within
judicial proceedings.
On motion of Senator Haidasz, debate adjourned.
The Senate adjourned during pleasure.

[ Translation]

ROYAL ASSENT
The Honourable John Charles Major, Puisne judge of the
Supreme Court of Canada, in his capacity as Deputy Governor
General, having come and being seated at the foot of the Throne,
and the House of Commons having been summoned, and being
come with their Deputy Speaker. the Honourable the Speaker of
the Senate said:
I have the honour to inform you that His Excellency the
Governor General has been pleased to cause Letters Patent
to be issued under his Sign Manual and Signet constituting
the Honourable John Charles Major, Puisne Judge of the
Supreme Court of Canada, his Deputy, to do in His
Excellency's name all acts on his part necessary to be done
during His Excellency's pleasure.
The Commission was read by' a Clerk at the Table.
The Honourable the Deputy Governor General was pleased to
give the Royal Assent to the following bills:
An Act to amend the Cultural Property Export and Import
Act, the Income Tax Act and the Tax Court of Canada Act.
(Bill C-93, Chapter 38, 1995)

December 5, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

An Act respecting firearms and other weapons.
(Bill C-68, Chapyter 39, 1995)
An Act to, establish a system of administrative monetary
penalties for the enforcement of the Canada Agricultural
Products Act, the Feeds Act, the Fertilizers Act, the Health
of Animais Act, the Meat Inspection Act, the Pest Control
Products Act, the Plant Protection Act and the Seeds Act.
(Bill C-61, Chapter 40, 1995)

An Act to amend the Customs Act and the Customs Tariff

and to make related and consequential amendments to other
Acts. (Bil! C-J
102, Chapter 41, 199-5)
The House of Commons withdrew.
The Honourable the Deputy Govemnor General was pleased to
retire.
The sitting of the Senate was resu med.
The Senate adjoumed until Wednesday, December 6, 1995, at
1:30 p.m.

THE SENATE
Wednesday, December 6, 1995
The Senate met at 1:30 p.m., the Speaker in the Chair.
Prayers.

SENATORS' STATEMENTS
NATIONAL DAY OF REMEMBRANCE
SIXTH ANNIVERSARY OF TRAGEDY AT IECOLE POLYTECHNIQUE

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, six years ago today, a deeply disturbed
individual walked into l'Ecole polytechnique in Montreal armed
with a mini-Ruger 14, plenty of ammunition, and a stated grudge
against feminists. He shot 27 people, killing 14 young women.
before turning the gun on himself.
This chilling event shook the country and, in its aftermath. this
day, December 6, was set aside as a national day of remembrance
and action on violence against women in aIl its forms.
This has been a truly depressing year for public exposure to
this kind of this issue. be it the ghastly tragedy of Kristen French
and Leslie Mahaffy: the four women murdered in Montreal last
week, including a young policewoman in her office; the fcar
which permeates the Abbotsford area of British Columbia where
a killer mrams free. while taunting police authorities and the
population; or the anger and despair in the small town of Taber,
near my home town in southern Alberta, where a family was
shattered by the rape and shooting of their mother.
It is truc enough that little can be done to prevent the
seemingly random actions of a person gone mad, but work can be
donc by governments. communities, families and individuals to
expose, to condemn and to diminish the frequency of this type of
violence with its very special characteristics.
This government has taken a number of legislative initiatives
during the last two years to improve our justice system, including
the passage of the following bills: Bill C-72 to prevent the
defence of extreme intoxication to excuse violence: Bill C- 104 to
regulate the collection and use of DNA evidence; Bill C-41 to
treat abuse of trust and hate crimes as aggravating factors in
determining the severity of sentencing; and, Bill C-68 which will
strengthen the control of firearms and help police forces across
the country to enforce the thousands of prohibition orders that are
issued every year in response to domestic conflicts.
This is a not an issue
concern to aIl of us accelerate the campaign
wherever it exists, against
the elderly.

of concern to women only. It is of
men and women together. We must
against violence, in al] its forms.
women and men, against children and

Many victims outside of our knowledge have been injured
beyond repair or lost their lives through hatred and violence. We
do not know who they are, but we do know the women of l'École
Polytechnique. With their families and friends, we repeat their
names with great sadness: Geneviève Bergeron; Hélène Colgan:
Nathalie Croteau; Barbara Daigneault; Anne-Marie Edward:
Maud Haviernick; Barbara Marie Klueznick. Maryse Laganière,
Maryse Leclair, Anne-Marie Lemay, Sonia Pelletier, Michelle
Richard, Annie St. Amault, and Annie Turcotte.
Honourable senators. we simply must make a much more
powerful effort to produce a safer and more secure future for all
our citizens, whatever their age, whatever their gender. wherever
they live. That is the best memorial we can offer.
Hon. Erminie J. Cohen: Honourable senators. there are
pivotal moments in every country's history. In the United States,
those moments have been the assassinations of leaders and the
landmarks of their space program. In Canada, some of our recent
historical moments have been the days when referenda have been
held. landmark elections, and this day.
We aIl remember where we were when we heard about the
killing of 14 young women at l'École polytechnique in Montreal
on December 6, 1989. It was a day that shocked Canadians into
some soul-searching about the nature of our society. It was a day
that jolted us out of our complacency about violence against
women. It compelled the federal government of the day into
taking action, and it continues to inspire Canada to take a
leadership role in addressing the issue of violence against women
at home and on the international stage.
At the United Nations World Conference on Women in
Beijing. Canada sponsored a resolution calling on ail countries to
take responsibility for ending violence against women, no matter
what cultural excuses were used.
On that day in December, 1989. too many men looked in the
mirror and felt a twinge of empathy for Marc Lépine. On that
same day, too many women looked at the men around them and
felt a fear that they had not felt before. Too many parents looked
at their young daughters and wondered how they would be able
to give them the confidence necessary to meet life's challenges in
the face of such senseless rage.
How can we let our young daughters walk alone to school or
home from part-time jobs? How can we tell them not to take
shortcuts to the library without instilling in them an everyday
fear that puts limits on their horizons? How can we understand
what it feels like for victims of rape and violence and the
survivors of the Montreal massacre if we do not take this day to
think about it?
We must pledge ourselves to work for greater understanding
between men and women, girls and boys. so that they will enjoy
a future that was denied the 14 women who died six years ago.

December 6, 1995

December 6, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

SENATE DEBATES

This day is called a Day of Remembrance. It reminds us of the
women of Bosnia who were tortured and raped throughout the
long war that tore Yugoslavia apart, and of the many women who
suffered the same treatment in other wars throughout history.
These victims and survivors are finally being given recognition
and a voice to express their pain. They have a right to demand
that their suffering not be condoned through the silence of
governments but recognized for the war crime and genocidal act
that it is.
The long-term implications for these women and the future
generations they are expected to raise are finally being looked at
head on by educators and policymakers. These girls and women
must not be left alone to bear a shame that should be borne by ail
of society. We must honour the resolutions made at the
U.N. conference in Beijing so that we can help restore the hopes,
dreams and confidence of these women so that they can, in turn,
instill them in their own children.
In this way, honourable senators, we can ensure that there will
be no recurrence of the kind of tragedy we saw in Montreal on
December 6, 1989.
[Translation]

Hon. Lise Bacon: Honourable senators, we will never forget
what happened on December 6, 1989, when 14 young women
lost their lives at Montreal's Ecole polytechnique.
As victims of a brutal and deadly aggression, these young
women will never have the opportunity to live the bright future
that was theirs. Nor will they have the opportunity to fulfil their
potential and aspirations, and to share them with their close ones.
December 6 is a reminder that violence is ahl too present in our
society, and that violence against women, whether verbal or
physical, is a problem which must not only make us think but
also act.
Twenty-five per cent of ail women have experienced violence
at the hands of their current partner or of a former one. On
average, a woman is shot to death every six days in Canada.
Firearms are the weapons of choice for spousal homicides. We
could provide many more statistics, but these sad figures are
enough to convince us that thought must be followed by action.
Although progress has been made in recent years in terms of
making people aware of the issue of violence against women, we
must still act at every level to fight this plague. In that regard, the
federal govemment has taken significant measures, including a
three year campaign to promote public awareness and collective
measures against violence in our society. In 1995-96, the theme
includes, among other issues, violence against women and
children. The campaign also includes national consultations on
violence against women; amendments to the Criminal Code and
other legislative initiatives; the establishment of a national crime
prevention council, in July 1994, and many more initiatives.

2413
2413

[Englislh]

Canada has also taken steps to put the issue of violence against
women on the international agenda. At the fourth United Nations
World Conference held in September 1995, Canada played an
important role in ensuring that the conference's final document,
the Platform for Action, included measures to eliminate aIl forms
of violence against women.
The massacre that took place at l'École polytechnique in
Montreal on December 6, 1989, and recent events - I am
thinking particularly of the murder of Constable Odette Pinard in
Montreal last week - painfully remind us that, too often,
violence is part of our everyday lives, and that it is our duty to
act and to take measures to stop violence. In any society,
violence is unacceptable. It will always be unacceptable.
Hon. Senators: Hear, hear!
Hon. Mira Spivak: Honourable senators, the loss of 14 young
women at l'Ecole polytechnique in Montreal six years ago was a
tragedy which galvanized Canadians. Their deaths spurred many
Canadians to act to make this country a safe one for all women.
Their memory has become our touchstone.
We must address systemic violence and systemic gender
inequality, or we risk the horror of similar tragedies.
[Translation]

Each year, I also become more aware of what we owe to the
families of these 14 young women. We are indebted to their
parents, who used their sorrow and their pain as a springboard to
positive action. We can hear their voices. Last year, in particular,
we heard them ask the government to provide better protection
for ail Canadians. They made that request:
...with their heart, their soul, their guts, their intelligence,
their common sense...
And, to quote Suzanne Laplante-Edward, in reference to her
daughter Anne-Marie:
...with in mind the wonderful memory of their beloved
children.
These parents continue to work to make Canada a better place,
and we owe them our gratitude.
[English]

With each year that passes, there are signs of hope that we are
addressing some of the root causes of violence against women.
This past summer, Statistics Canada gave us a detailed picture of
women in Canada that shows there is progress in narrowing the
gap of gender inequality; that there have been substantial
increases in the educational attainment of women; and that there
has been substantial growth in the number of women in the
labour force.

In recent years, women have increased their representation in
several professional tields. For example. in 1994, women made
up 32 per cent of aIl doctors and dentists in this country. A dozen
years earlier, they made up only 18 per cent.

were about 35,000. You must admit there is quite a spread
between the two estimates. Is it so hard to get the real figures'?
Was this not one of' the biggest demonstrations in the history of
Canada?

The report, however. discloses that substantial inequality
remains. On average. women's incomes are just 58 per cent of
men's average incomes in Canada. Women make up more than
haîf of aIl people living on Iow incomes in Canada. Women are
much more likely than men to feel worried about their personal
safety. We still have a society in which 42 per cent - 1 was
surprised to learn this figure was not at 100 per cent - of
women feel unsafe walking alone after dark in their
neighbourhoods.

Complaints about the way in wbich the SRC fulfils its mandate
have been heard before. Back in 1987, the CRTC was concerned
about the fact that francophones outside Quebec did flot receive
from their national broadcasting service the kind of programs
with which they could identify, such as local news, specific
editorial content or specific subjects. The CRTC added that
wherever they happened to live, francophones outside Quebec
should be able to identify with the national service. That is why.
again according to the CRTC. the SRC should adapt its French
programming to satisfy the needs of francophones outside
Quebec.

According to the United Nations development programs newly
released 1995 Human Development Report, globally. womnen
constitute 70 per cent of the world's poor; represent two-thirds of
the 900 million ilIiterate; and receive only 26 per cent of total
earned income. They hold only 14 per cent of the world's
managerial and administrative positions and occupy only
10 per cent of parliamentary seats.
[Trans¶lation]
The campaign against violence is far tfrom over. as
demonstrated by last week's killing of a Montreal policewomnan
and mother of two children. who was shot point-blank while
writing a report in ber office. This savage attack against a
30-year-old woman reminds us, once again. that we stilî have a
long way to go.
On this national day of commemoration and activities to
condemn violence against women, we remember a tragedy. and
this moment of retiection gives us strength and determination.
These 14 young women studying in Montreal left us. sadly, a
legacy that wiIl bear fruit. We owe them and their tamilies our
sincere gratitude. Above aIl. we owe them, on this day of
commemoration, our repeated assurances that their sacrifice bas
flot been in vain.
i 3D

NATIONAL UNITY
QUEBEC REFERENDUMCOVERAGE 0F EVENTS BY CflC FRENCH NETWORK

Hon. L. Norbert Thériault: Honourable senators, 1 would
like to comment on the media coverage provided by the Société
Radio-Canada duning the referendum.
Honourable senators, the obvious bias of some journalists at
the SRC regarding Quebec separatism has bothered me for some
time. For instance. the coverage of the monster rally. where
nearly 100.000 Canadians travelled to Montreal to tell Quebecers
that they wanted a united Canada. left something to be desired.
said there were
The CBC. the English network.
150,000 people, while the SRC and RDI estiniated that there

1 Senatoi.

Spi\ Ak 1

In fact, the SRC willingly took part in an exercise to identify
the television needs of francophones outside Quebec. In 1988, it
released a study which proposed a detailed action plan covering
the many aspects of problems relating to coverage area and
programming. At the time. the SRC estimated that $80 million
would be needed to implement the report. This remains the most
exhaustive study ever made by the SRC to examine the television
needs of these communities.
Today. eight years after the CRTC's decision and seven years
after the SRC tabled its report. 1 must conclude that the SRC has
failed to adapt its French television services in a manner that is
satisfactory. Instead of the expected increase in local
programming, francophones outside Quebec. after the budget
cuts in December 1990. lost one local station - the one in
Toronto which is flot negligible in an area with several thousand
francophones - and were given only 24 hours of' general or
local programming on aIl stations oniside Quebec, instead of the
41 hours produced before the study. Recent budget cuts had the
effect of further reducing local French programming outside
Quebec. especially in Ottawa and Moncton.
Lately, 1 noted some attempt to provide more Canadian news
coverage with programs like SRC Bonjour but here again. this
does flot suit western Canada because of the time difference. LeTéléjournal with Bernard Derome, Le Point with Lépine and
Poulin and special features on the SRC's news program remain
firmly focused on events in Quebec. RDI might be an alternative
l'or broadcasting local news. except that RDI is flot available
everywhere in Canada.

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, the time allotted
to Senator Thériault bas run out. Does he have permission to
continue?!
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Sen. Thériauît: Honourable senators. you know it is flot often
that 1 take up the Senate's time. As an Acadian. must I accept
seeing the French fact reduced almost exclusively to Quebec on
state television? Being from the Maritimes. 1 figured out long
ago that 1 needed to access other national networks to get news of
my region.

December 6, 1995

December 6, 1995

2415

SENATE DEBATES

2415

SENATE DEBATES

Honourable senators, is it normal for me hear more about
Acadians on CBC radio's Morningside than on its francophone
counterpart produced in Montreal. and for Montreal?
This is an upsetting and unacceptable situation. Imagine if
there were a sovereign State of Quebec and if the state television,
Radio-Québec, were openly promoting Canadian federalism. No
one would tolerate that, nor will we tolerate it from
Radio-Canada today.
Hon. Jean-Robert Gauthier: Honourable senators, I shall
wait until tomorrow. I know what is on the Order Paper, and just
how heavy our agenda is.
[English]
QUEBEC REFERENDUM-RESPONSE OF SOME QUEBECERS
TO COMMUNICATIONS FROM SCHOOLCHILDREN
IN OTHER PARTS OF THE COUNTRY

Hon. Marcel Prud'homme: Honourable senators, on
October 31, schoolchildren in Grades 3 and 4 of the Bisset
Elementary School in Alberta sent out letters stating their
thoughts on the referendum: that they were very happy about the
result. The envelope was addressed to "any elementary school,
Grade 3 or 4, in Québec City."
Approximately three weeks later, their teacher, Mr. Kent
Richardson from St. Albert, was surprised to receive the
envelope on which was written: "Return to Sender." Inside, he
found the letters from the schoolchildren accompanied by an
editorial cartoon from Le Devoir and the name of a teacher,
Madam Christiane Lévesque of l'Ecole Saint-Jean-Baptiste, in
Quebec.
Madam Lévesque, when reached by Radio-Canada yesterday,
stated that she returned the envelope to the schoolchildren and
that she did not appreciate receiving the envelope in the first
place.
This morning, I took the initiative to talk to Mr. Kent
Richardson, the teacher from St. Albert. He told me that this
started as a comparative study between Alberta and Quebec,
which is part of the curriculum in Grades 3 and 4 at Bisset
Elementary School. This study is intended to increase the
appreciation, tolerance and sensitivity of the students towards a
different culture. It was supposed to be completed by the end of
the year. It started in September and culminated in October and
was, by way of a project, to have students prepare letters to state
how they felt about the result of the referendum. In fact, many
students stated what they felt before, but Mr. Richardson
believed that the students also could do something after the fact.
[Translation]

Honourable senators, it is a pity when schoolchildren, in
expressing how they feel, come up against this kind of lack of
understanding on the part of an adult. Not only should eight- and
nine-year-olds be encouraged to state their thoughts but their
initiatives should be greeted with courtesy.
I find such incidents most unfortunate. I hope that
Mrs. Christiane Lévesque will return to a better frame of mind

and that Quebec leaders, whom I will be contacting this
afternoon, that is to say the mayor of Quebec City or the office of
either Mr. Parizeau or Mr. Bouchard, will let these children know
that they are sorry.
[English]

I expressed my deep sadness to Mr. Richardson and asked him
to convey my admiration to his students. In addition, I agreed to
speak to his students at any time.
Since Mr. Richardson wishes to pursue this endeavour, I asked
my friend Mark Assad, the member for Gatineau-La Lièvre, if
he could find a school for me that would be receptive to this kind
gesture made on behalf of these children from Bisset Elementary
School. Approximately 10 minutes ago, he agreed to do so.
Mr. Richardson and his students intend to find a school in
Quebec with canadiennes françaises - not in Montreal, where it
would be easy to organize. Mr. Assad is convinced that, without
a shadow of a doubt, he will find a school that will accept this
letter, which was sent in good faith.
Hon. Senators: Hear, hear!
*(1400)

ROUTINE PROCEEDINGS
ENERGY, THE ENVIRONMENT AND NATURAL
RESOURCES
RESPONSE TO INTERIM REPORT ON THE SAFETY IMPLICATIONS OF
AUTOMATED WEATHER OBSERVATION SYSTEMS

On Tabling of Documents:
Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourable senators I have the honour to table a
response to the Standing Senate Committee on Energy, the
Environment and Natural Resources on their Interim Report on
the Safety Implications of Automated Weather Observation
Systems, AWOS.
FISHERIES
REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON ANNUAL REPORT OF
DEPARTMENT OF FISHERIES AND OCEANS ON THE
ATLANTIC GROUNDFISH FISHERY TABLED

Hon. Eileen Rossiter: Honourable senators, I have the honour
to table the second report of the Standing Senate Committee on
Fisheries, which results from the committee's examinati.on of the
annual report of the Department of Fisheries and Oceans and
deals with the Atlantic groundfish fishery.
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, when shall this
report be taken into consideration?
On motion of Senator Rossiter, pursuant to rule 97(3), report
placed on the Orders of the Day for consideration at the next
sitting of the Senate.

CODE 0F CONDUCT

[Etiglislil
[ngih

SECOND REPORT OF SPECIAL JOINT COMMITEE PRESENTED

Hon. Donald H. Oliver, Joint Chairman of the Special Joint
Committee on the Code of Conduct, presented the following
report:
Wednesday, December 6, 1995
The Special Joint Committee on a Code of Conduct has
the honour to present its
SECOND REPORT
Your Committee has examined its Order of Reference
adopted by the Senate on Wednesday, June 28, 1995, and by
the House on Monday, June 19, 1995, and recommends the
following:
That the name of the Committee in French be changed te,
"Comité mixte spécial sur un code de conduite".
Respectfuliy submitted.
DONALD H. OLIVER
Joint Chair

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators. when shall this
report be taken into consideration?
On motion of Senator Oliver, report placed on the Orders of'
the Day for consideration at the next sitting of the Senate.
[Translation]

PARLIAMENTARY ASSEMBLIES 0F
FRENCH-SPEAKING COUNTRIES
REPORT 0F CONFERENCE OF SPEAKERS. PARIS. FRANCE

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, I have the
honour to present, in both officiai languages, the report of the

FOREIGN AFFAIRS
COMMITVEE AUTHORIZED TO MEET DURINO SITTING 0F THE
SENATE

Hon. John B. Stewart. with leave of the Senate
notwithstanding rule 58(1)(a), moved:

and

That the Standing Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs
have the power to sit at 3:15 in the afternoon today. even
though the Senate may then be sitting, and that
rule 95(4) be suspended in relation thereto.

The Hon. the Speaker: Is leave granted. honourable senators?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Motion agreed to.

SOCIAL PROGRAMS IN CANADA
NOTICE 0F INOUIRY

Hon. L. Norbert Thérinuit: Honourable senators, I give
notice that on Thursday. December 7, 1995. 1 will call the
attention of the Senate to concernis with respect to social
programs in Canada.
GUN CONTROL LEGISLATION
PRESENTATION 0F PETITIONS

Hon. Paul Lucier: Honourable senators. I have the honour to,
present two petitions regarding Bihl C-68: one from the people in
the Yukon, and one from some people in British Columbia.

QUESTION PERIOD
CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENTS

conterence of speakers ot Parliamentary assemblies of
French-speaking counitries, which I had the privilege of attending
as Canadian parliamentary delegate.

AVAILABILITY 0F OPPORTUNITY FOR THE PROPOSAL 0F

The conference. held in Paris on October 16 and 17. 1995. at
the invitation of the speaker of the French National Assembly,
brought together more than 40 speakers of French-speaking
parliamentary assemblies.

Hon. LoweIl Murray: Honourable senators, 1 have a questin
for the Honourahle Leader ot the Government in the Senate
concerning Bill C-I 110 which is now before the Justice and Legal
Affairs Committee of the other place.

INTERNATIONAL ASSEMBLY 0F FRENCH-SPEAKING
PARLIAMENTARIANS

My question is prompted by reports that, in recent days. a
number of cabinet colleagues have corne 10 the conclusion that
the bill needs to be amended in order to provide a five-region
veto. extending the veto to British Columbia as a region.

REPORT OF CANADIAN SECTION AND FINANCIAL REPORT 0F

22ND SESSION OF GENERAL AMERICAN ASSEMBLY

Hon. Jean-Robert Gauthier: Honourable senators. pursuanî
to rule 23(6). I have the honour to present. in both officiai
languages. the report ot the Canadian section oftIhe International
Assembly ot Frcnch-Speakin g Parliamientarians and the financial
report of the 22nd session of the General Amnerican Assemibly of
the IAFSP, held iii Quebec City troir JuIly 12 to 14.

AMENDMENTS

GOVERNMENT POSITION

In particular. a media report of yesterday's date states that the
Minister of Fisheries and Oceans, Brian Tobin, began favouring a
separate veto l'or B.C. after participating last Tuesday iii a radio
open-lin show in Vancouver.
This report is confit med hy one oh Mi. Tobin's press aides who
is (1 00ted as saying. "Tobin hiad been struck h tlie strength ol'
West Coast public opinion on the issue." The samne report stated:

December 6, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

Justice Minister Allan Rock is also believed to be backing
a separate veto...

national policy. I shall certainly make his views known to my
colleague.

Further on, the article states:
B.C.'s minister, David Anderson, is "more than on side"
for a fifth region and has been working around the clock to
lobby his cabinet colleagues, says Liberal Peter Warkentin,
vice-president of the party's B.C. region.
My question is this: Is the government giving consideration to
proposing amendments to Bill C-110 before its passage by the
House of Commons?
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, I can say to my honourable friend, quite
honestly, that I have no knowledge that that is the case.
Senator Murray: Honourable senators, is it a fair and
accurate statement of the government's position that you are
determined to pass Bill C-110 without amendment through the
House of Commons and send it in that form to the Senate?
Senator Fairbairn: I cannot answer that question either. It is
clear that strong views are being expressed regarding parts of this
proposed legislation.
The bill is now before the House of Commons. As you know,
it is being studied by the House of Commons committee today.
We must wait and see what transpires. I am being absolutely
honest with my friend in stating that I cannot answer his
questions.
0(1410)

Senator Murray: The govemment bas no plans at the
moment to propose amendments to this bill. Is that the situation?
Senator Fairbairn: Should that be the case, it would be
announced as of this moment. I am not aware of any.
CLARIFICATION OF SITUATION IN RELATION TO ABORIGINAL
ASPIRATIONS-GOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. Lowell Murray: I couple my next question, honourable
senators, with the expressed hope that, before any further steps
are taken, including proposed amendments to the bill, the
government would consult with the premiers, especially the
premiers of the four provinces in Western Canada who are
affected by the present bill and would be affected by any
amendments thereto.
Honourable senators, the minister also will have noted
statements attributed to the head of the Assembly of First Nations
concerning the possible impact of the amending formula on the
constitutional aspirations of aboriginal peoples. I think it would
be important, at an early date, for the responsible minister,
Mr. Rock, to clarify the situation with regard to this bill and its
relationship to the constitutional aspirations of aboriginal
peoples.
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government): I thank
my honourable friend for his comments. He has had a very long
history of involvement on this particular file of govemment and

2417

VISITORS IN THE GALLERY
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, I draw your
attention to the presence in the gallery of a former colleague of
ours, Charles R. McElman. Welcome, again, to the chamber.
Hon. Senators: Hear, hear!
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, I also draw your
attention to some other distinguished visitors in our gallery: a
delegation of senior officials of the Federation Council in the
State Duma of Russia, who are in Ottawa this week to study our
parliamentary system, under a parliarnentary exchange program
that we have with the Parliament of Russia. I would add that
three of the delegates are very fortunate in that they will be going
from Ottawa to the province of Manitoba to spend some time in
Winnipeg.
Hon. Senators: Hear, hear!
CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENTS
DISTRIBUTION OF VETO POWER-STATUS OF BRITISH
COLUMBIA-GOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. Marcel Prud'homme: Honourable senators, I am
pleased that Senator Murray was inspired by my question of
yesterday.

Yesterday, I asked the Honourable Leader of the Govemment
in the Senate if she would inform her colleague of my wishes. I
do not expect to be told any caucus secrets, although I am
touched by yesterday's invitation by Senator MacEachen to come
back to the fold. That invitation is now on the record. I have been
waiting for an invitation frorn the government whip, but I have
not received one yet.
Senator MacEachen: I may change my mind!
Senator Prud'homme: Honourable senators, I would ask the
Honourable Leader of the Govemment in the Senate if she
conveyed my strong wishes of yesterday to whomever she met
this morning, either in cabinet or in caucus, about a veto for
British Columbia?
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, I shall be pleased to do so this afternoon
when I meet with some of my colleagues.
HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT
BRITISH COLUMBIA-IMPOSITION OF WAITING PERIOD FOR
PAYMENTS UNDER CANADA ASSISTANCE PLAN-SUSPENSION OF
TRANSFER PAYMENTS-GOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. David Tkachuk: Honourable senators, I have a question
for the Leader of the Government in the Senate. The Minister of
Human Resources Development. Mr. Axworthy. is withholding
payments to British Columbia as result of that province's
three-month residency period requirement before application for

welfare. Minister Axworthy claims that the three-month waiting
period is a barrier to the free movement of people in Canada.
Would the minister explain to us how the three-month waiting
period constitutes a barrier to the free movement of people in
Canada?
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, the Minister of Human Resources, with
considerable regret, took the decision that he did because the
Govemment of British Columbia was clearly in breach of the law
goveming the Canada Assistance Plan. Mr. Axworthy would far
prefer to settle the issue of mobility rights without implementing
this kind of penalty. It is not something that the Minister of
Human Resources wishes to do. However, there is a law in place,
and he believes the federal government must abide by that law.
He and his officials hope to talk again with the minister in British
Columbia.
Senator Tkachuk: Honourabe senators, that may be, but he
does not say that. He says that the Government of British
Columbia is causing a barrier to the free movement of
Canadians. I do not know much about how the minister thinks,
but there is nothing stopping anyone from moving to British
Columbia, as far as I know. I just want to know what the barrier
is and. if the barrier is three months, what would make it better?
Would it be one month? Would it be two weeks? Would it be
15 days? Would it be the same requirement as that for voting in
British Columbia, namely, six months? What is the actual barrier
to prevent you, or me, or any Canadian, from moving to British
Columbia?
Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators, there is no barrier
preventing Senator Tkachuk from moving to British Columbia at
all. I am sure he would be more than welcome there.
The barrier, as I said before - and I will be pleased to get the
exact language of the law for my honourable friend - is found
in the question of the rights of Canadians, wherever they live in
Canada, to be able to move to other parts of Canada and not lose
their eligibility to access the Canada Assistance Plan. It is set out
clearly in the law. That is the difficulty in which the federal
minister finds himself. If there is, through negotiation, discussion
and cooperation, a method of resolving this issue, the minister
would be a happy man. He left himself available, up until the
moment when this action became necessary this week, to try to
find a favourable conclusion to this difficulty.
However, I will be pleased to get the exact wording of the law,
which leaves the minister with no other alternative but to take the
action that he has taken. He has donc so with great regret and
hopes that further communications with his counterpart in British
Columbia will resolve the situation.
CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENTS
VETO PROPOSALS-EFFECT ON FUTURE STATUS OF YUKON

Hon. Paul Lucier: Honourable senators, my question is for
the Leader of the Govemment in the Senate. It concerns
Bill C- 110. The provinces object to being lumped together in a

[ Senator Tkacliuk

1

veto. However, we in both northern territories do not have that
problem. We have been totally ignored. We are not being lumped
with anyone. We do not have any say at all. Could the Leader of
the Govemment assist me on this matter?
I have a letter from the Office of the Govemment Leader of
the Yukon Territory, Mr. John Ostashek, which states:
Yukoners are proud to be Canadian and wish to see the
federation work, but success cannot be achieved by
measures which will take away from our rights. The veto
proposals will make eventual provincial status even more
difficult to achieve; they are regressive and unfair to the
Yukon and NWT. Exclusion of our interests and our voice is
particularly troublesome at a time when we join fully with
the provinces and the federal government in a variety of
intergovernmental forums and at First Ministers'
conferences.

The veto could, eventually, have a serious effect on the Yukon
and the Northwest Territories. We are not talking about
provincial status now, but we do know that we will want to
achieve that at some point in the future. We have always felt that
the achievement of provincial status should be settled between
the territory involved and the Government of Canada, which is
how every other province became a province. Then there were no
vetoes from anyone.
Can something be donc in Bill C-1]0? Can we be assured that.
at some later point, this matter will be addressed and that the
people of the Yukon and the Northwest Territories will be able to
feel that they count in this equation? We are not merely entities
sitting on the side to be dealt with when everything else is in
place.
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, I should like to answer the last part of my
honourable friend's question first with a very strong statement to
him and those he represents that they do indeed count. They are
of great importance, not just to any govemment but to the
country as a whole.
Senator Lucier will know that honouring the commitment
made during the referendum and bringing forward the measures
that the Prime Minister has recently outlined does not alter the
current amending formula, nor does it amend the Constitution. It
is seen as a bridge to 1997 when a formal review of the
amending formula must be conducted by the first ministers. The
suggested changes are not of a constitutional nature.
The government is also committed to doing everything it can
to create a degree of consensus which will allow us to improve
our federation. short of constitutional amendment. That is what
the Prime Minister has committed himself to do. In the past, my
honourable friend has made him very conscious of the position of
the Northwest Territories and the Yukon, particularly on the
question of provincehood.

December 6, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

[Translation]

HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT
UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE REFORM-CORRESPONDENCE
BETWEEN FEDERAL AND NEW BRUNSWICK GOVERNMENTSREQUEST FOR TABLING OF DOCUMENTATION

Hon. Jean-Maurice Simard: Honourable senators, my
question is for the Leader of the Government, and relates to my
question of yesterday about the reform of the unemployment
insurance program.
From the answer I was given by the govemment leader, I felt
obliged to reformulate my question to enable her to clarify her
response and to confirm her commitment to table the documents
I asked for yesterday.
I suggested she should agree to table all the documents
exchanged between the Government of New Brunswick and the
federal government, including the documents Mr. McKenna used
to convince the federal government of the ftaws in the reform, or
at least of the dissatisfaction of the four Atlantic premiers with
the reform and their continued concerns about it.
In response to my question, the govemment leader said:
If there is anything further I can do in response to my
friend's request, I will do it.
I just want the documents, Madam Minister. I can understand
that she does not have in her possession the documents
expressing the Govemment of New Brunswick's objections to
the negative impact of the reform on seasonal jobs.
However, I think Canadians - and certainly the people of
New Brunswick - are entitled to know exactly which points
Mr. McKenna does not like in the reform. Otherwise, we are
limited to interpreting Mr. McKenna's words of rather weak
opposition as another frivolous statement, devoid of meaning.
Given that speech evaporates and the written word endures, 1,
and the people of New Brunswick, would like to know the
content of these documents so that I can confirm Mr. McKenna's
attachment to the workers in New Brunswick who could be
affected by the passing of this bill.
[English]

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, I believe the answer to that question is the
same in substance as the answer I gave my honourable friend
yesterday. I will take his requests seriously and present them to
my colleagues to find out if there is any documentation, and if
so, what the nature of it is, and whether there is a possibility of
tabling such documentation. I undertake to do that.
In spite of our political differences, I am sure my honourable
friend would agree that Mr. McKenna's words and speeches are
very compelling in themselves.

2419

[Translation]

Senator Simard: Honourable senators, to return to my
question, we know that spoken words are fleeting. No one in
Canada can accept, or even imagine, an official statement of the
Government of New Brunswick being made orally.
If the McKenna government is serious, and I believe it is most
of the time, it will certainly have prepared documents giving
some statistics about the people likely to be affected by this
reform. It is totally inconceivable that Mr. McKenna would have
restricted himself to a spoken statement which could be
interpreted in any way one might wish in the weeks, months,
even years, to come.
[English]

Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators, I am not disputing
what my honourable friend has said; I am simply saying that I do
not know. I will try to find an answer for my colleague. However,
it may be that I cannot delve into the domain of any provincial
government, and the questions my honourable friend poses may
be better asked of Premier McKenna.
[Translation]

Senator Simard: Since I am a senator and since Canadian
money and federal unemployment insurance and employment
legislation is involved, I do not think I need to contact the
legislature of New Brunswick to get an answer.
Moreover, where the legislature of New Brunswick is
concerned - and you will have to take my word for this - there
have been no consultations between the Leader of the
Government of New Brunswick and myself in recent days.
Yesterday, an official request was made to the Govemrnent of
New Brunswick and its premier for the Legislative Assembly to
be recalled and for there to be a debate on this matter in New
Brunswick. All New Brunswick parties are in agreement that the
legislation of Messrs Chrétien and Axworthy is not appropriate
in the least.
Do you know what Mr. McKenna's answer was to Leader of
the Opposition Valcourt's request? That there would be no
special session. Do you believe I would get a positive response
from Mr. McKenna if I asked for those documents?
There are numerous precedents for tabling before this house
correspondence, letters or documents which have been
exchanged between these two govemments in the past, as well as
with other provincial governments.
My question is therefore as follows: Will the minister commit
herself to a serious investigation in order to obtain these
documents for tabling, within a week or, at the very least, before
adjournment?
[English]

Senator
committed
the proper
possible to

Fairbairn: Honourable senators, once again, I have
myself to convey my honourable friend's question to
sources to see if documents exist and whether it is
accede to my friend's request. I will do that.

[La ter]
[Translation]
UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE REFOR M CORRESPON DEN CE
BETWEEN FEDERAL AND NOVA SCOTIA GOVERNMENTSREQUEST FOR TABLING 0F DOCUMENTATION

Hon. Geraid J. Comeau: Honourable senators, my question
follows on tbat of Senator Simard. The Govemment Leader in
the Senate bas committcd berself to obtaining for us tbe
correspondence containing tbe recommendations of the Premier
of New Brunswick, Mr. McKenna. 1 would also like to sec tabled
the correspondence of Mr. McKenna, wbo bas bad very fittie to
say s0 far, conccrning tbe cbanges Minister Axwortby bas
proposed for Nova Scotia.
[English]

Hon. Joyce

Fairbairn (Leader of the

Government):

Honourable senators, I repeat that I will ascertain if anytbing is
available and, if so. 1 wiIl check to, sec if it is appropriate to
follow tbrougb.
UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE REFORMRELATIONSHIP TO REDESIGN 0F OVERALL SOCIAL PROGRAMSGOVERNMENT POLICY

Hon. Brenda M. Robertson., Honourable senators. two years
ago, after the Liberals formed tbe govemment, soure ratber
tnteresting proclamations and announcements were made by
Mr. Axwortby regarding the study and redesigo ot ail programs
supporting the social safety net. These announcements were
made over a considerable period of time.
Knowing. as most of us do in this chamber. the strong
inter-relationsbip between social programs. cao tbe bonourable
leader advise us wby ber goveroment and Mr. Axwortby dropped
tbe study on the restructuring of the social nctwork in favour of a
piecemeal approacb demonstrated by isolating tbe reform of
unemploymcnt insurance from other programs?

Hon. Joyce

Have the discussions between Minister Axwortby and the
people ot this country indicated that the preference is that one
program at a time should be addressed witbout considering
others? Will eacb programn be tinkered with, separate and apart
from the others? If that is donc, honourable senators. 1 submit to
you that it will flot work.

Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators. 1 respect my
colleague's views on this process. She cornes to tbis chamber from
the province of New Brunswick and with a great deal of experience
of bow these programs work. My honourable friend will know, for
instance. that over many years unemployment insurance has been
deait witb in a manner that does not separate it from the social
network. The issue itself is complex and special in the way that it
affects the lives of Canadian workers. Following advice and
consultation, goveroments in the past sought to corne to the best
possible conclusions on the unemployment insurance issue.
I-owever. in dealing witb unempioyment insurance, govemments
have been accuscd of tinkering. 1 do flot believe it was tinkering
betore. and it is flot tinkering now.
Honourable senators. in a very determined way, the Minister of
Human Resources Development bas tried to combine the difficuit
social problems involved in work and education in an attempt to find
différent methods of job creation. He bas attempted to pull more of
that into the ambit of employment services than has been the case in
the past. However. bis motivation is the same as tbat of previous
governments: to establisb the strongest foundation and sustainable
security for Canadians in the areas of employment. pensions and
bealtb care. Tbat is bis motivation. He is making cboices based on
tbe best advice and knowledge tbat be cao accumulate tbrougb
public consultation and discussions witb ail wbo are involved in tbe
social network.
Honourable senators. 1 personally believe we sbould give tbc
minîster aIl tbe support we cao as be strives to achieve tbe objectives
tbat we ail wisb to acbieve.

Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):

Honourabie senators, as my bonourable triend will know, an
exercise was begun by Mr. Axwortby some time ago. He has
taken a great deal of time and effort ta consult, to, gatber
information and vicws from the public, tbe provinces and
interested stakebolders in ail areas on tbe broad subjcct of social
reform. He bas flot donc that once; be bas donc it a great many
tîmes.

Senator Robertson: Honourable senators, obviously there is a
major différence in opinion. In due course, we will bave an
opportunity to debate this issue.
DELAYED ANSWER TO ORAL QUESTION
Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourable senators, I bave a response to a
question raised in the Senate on November 20, 1995, by the
Honourable Senator Berntson regarding tbe sale of Airbus
aircraft to Air Canada.

JUSTICE
He bas not. in any way. backed away from bis intense concern
to establish a secure social nctwork for Canadians. He bas cbosen
tbe metbod in wbicb be is now cngaged. It involves a different
way of approacbing wbat will now be called the "social transfer".
It will include policies for tbe cldcrly.
My bonourable friend refers to tbis approacb as piecemneal.
Tbe minister bas bad extensive consultations. and be bas initiatcd
an approacb wbicb be and the govemment believe will constitute
security for Canadians of ail ages. and in ail parts of tbis country,
l'or miany years to corne.
Senator Robertson: Tbaî ks an interestinL, ansvwet. b01oLMNouC
senators.

SALE OF~ AIRBUS AIRCRAFT TO AIR CANADAALLEGED CONSPIRACY TO DEFRAUD FEDERAL GOVERNMENTNUMBERS 0F RCMP INVESTIGATIONS PUBLICIZEDREQUESI FOR PARTICULARS
(Response to question raised bY Hon. Eric Arthur Berntson on1
November 20, 1995)
From wbat is known of tbe nature of' tbe documents tbat
xxere publicly disclosed and tbe manner in wbicb tbey bave
been made public. tbese documents vwere nol documents
created by the Gox ernoment of Canada oi edited by the
Gox ernoment ol Canada.

December 6, 1995

December 6. 1995

SENATE DEBATES

SENATE DEBATES

The Government of Canada has no reason to believe that
the reported disclosure resulted from govemmental action.
In light of this information, the Govemment of Canada is
not asking for an investigation at this time.
To our knowledge, no letters of request to other countries
have ever been made public.

ORDERS OF THE DAY
AUDITOR GENERAL ACT
BILL TO AMEND-SECOND READING

On the Order:
Resuming the debate on the motion of the Honourable
Senator Kenny, seconded by the Honourable Senator Roux,
for the second reading of Bill C-83, to amend the Auditor
General Act.
Hon. Eric Arthur Berntson (Deputy Leader of the
Opposition): Honourable senators, Bill C-83 aims to give the
Auditor General a stronger mandate to monitor departmental
activity concerning the environment. It also ensures that such
activity is reported to the House of Commons annually.
By way of background, honourable senators, reaching this
point has involved travelling a somewhat winding trail. The
former PC govemment made environmental concerns a key part
of federal planning. In 1989, the PC government launched the
National Round Table on the Environment and the Economy, an
initiative to include environmental concerns and economic
planning. In particular, a sustainable development strategy was
included in the Conservative Green Plan introduced in
December 1990. The strategy focused on forestry, the agri-food
industry, and fisheries.
In their Red Book, honourable senators, the Liberals pledged
to make sustainable development a major component of
Canada's strategy for economic growth. They promised to create
an "Environmental Auditor General" to monitor the "greening"
of government. In the spring of 1994, the Standing Committee on
Environment and Sustainable Development recommended the
creation of a new and independent office, designated "The
Commissioner
of the
Environment
and Sustainable
Development." This was in spite of testimony from the Auditor
General pointing out that his office was already doing similar
work.
O(1440)

In her response, however, to the committee's report,
Environment Minister, Sheila Copps, stated that a new office
separate from the Auditor General would not be created.
In substance, the passage of Bill C-83 would implement five
changes. First. it would require that all full departments develop

2421
2421

a sustainable development strategy. Second, it would require the
Auditor General to make an environmental report to the House of
Commons at least annually. Third, it would require the
appointment by the Auditor General of a commissioner of the
environment and sustainable development who would assist the
Auditor General in performing his duties relating to the
environment. Fourth, the commissioner wili also monitor the
progress of departments in respect to their sustainable
development strategy. Fifth, it would impose guidelines
regulating the treatment of ail petitions related to environmental
development issues received by the Auditor General. The
commissioner will forward aIl petitions to the appropriate
minister who will acknowledge receipt of the petition to at least
one petitioner within 15 days of reception and respond to the
petition within 120 days.
Honourable senators, this is not a complicated bill, although
there may be some need for clarification regarding some
concerns raised at the committee stage, which I suggest is the
appropriate place to raise such concerns.
Hon. Mira Spivak: Honourable senators, I wish to indicate
my support for Bill C-83, which will create the commissioner of
the environment and sustainable development under the Auditor
General Act.
Senator Kenny ably explained in detail the forward-looking
elements of the bill. However, I have some concerns with respect
to it.
I welcome the amendments that will expand the watch-dog
role that auditors general have informally taken upon themselves
for 10 years or so. As the Auditor General himself pointed out in
his November report, in the past decade his office has explored
environmental issues from almost every conceivable angle as
part of its mandate to report matters of significance to
Parliament.
With this bill, he will have a new partner - perhaps a new
"deputy" is the appropriate term. The new commissioner of the
environment and sustainable development, appointed by and
reporting to the Auditor General, will be charged specifically
with keeping watch on what government departments say they
will do to further sustainable development and telling Parliament,
and the public, the extent to which they are doing it.
The new office is certainly worthy of support. It makes some
sense to locate it within the Office of the Auditor General. Time
and again we hear that unsustainable development not only
harms the natural environment, human health and our country's
credibility in the international community, but also, in the long
run, it is more expensive.
The Auditor General reaffirmed that point in his recent reports
that tell of the economic fallout from delays in finding permanent
disposal for radioactive waste and PCBs. In just one hour this
week I also heard people concerned with global climate change
speak of many measures governments could introduce that would
not only mitigate the impact of climate change on the
environment, the economy and human health, but how they
would also save taxpayers money.

This bill requiring departments to give some thought to the
impact of their procedures, their programs and their policies on
the environment and Canada's progress toward a sustainable
society is certainly worthy of support. We need this mechanism
to require our officiais to see the big picture and to take a
long-term view. Long gone are the days when asking employees
to recycle or follow environmentally friendly procurement
practices will meet the environmental challenges we face.
That being said, I am aware that the bill does not go as far as
many might have hoped. It does not allow the new commissioner
to judge the merits of departmental policy. It does not create an
ombudsman for the environment. or even a quasi-ombudsman as
we have for the protection of access to govemment information
or personal privacy. The new commissioner will simply pass on
petitions received from the public to the responsible minister and
report the response.
At the end of the day, the effectiveness of this bill will depend
on two unknowns: It will depend on the quality of the sustainable
development strategies that departments produce, and it will
depend on the political will of the government to act on the
deficiencies reported to Parliament by the new commissioner. In
short, the effect remains to be seen.
However, I support this bill in the spirit of willing suspension
of disbelief. It is a good, if limited, step. I sincerely hope that the
government heeds the words of my colleague opposite who,
yesterday, said that it will ensure the decisions made by federal
departments are sustainable development decisions and that
environmental, social and economic considerations will be
integrated in ail federal planning and decision making. That is a
hoped-for result. I support it and hope that it will come to pass.
Hon. Colin Kenny: Honourable senators The Hon. the Speaker: I wish to remind honourable senators
that if the Honourable Senator Kenny speaks now, his speech
will have the effect of closing the debate on second reading.
Senator Kenny: Honourable senators, I am sure that the
members of the Standing Senate Committee on Energy, the
Environment and Natural Resources will consider this bill
carefully.
Motion agreed to and bill read second time.
REFERRED TO COMMITTEE

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, when shall this
bill be read the third time?
On motion of Senator Kenny, bill referred to the Standing
Senae Committee on Energy, the Environment and Natural
Resources.
BRITISH COLUMBIA TREATY COMMISSION BILL
SECOND READING

On the Order:

[ Senatoi Spivak 1

Resuming the debate on the motion of the Honourable
Senator Marchand, P.C., seconded by the Honourable
Senator Losier-Cool, for the second reading of Bill C-107,
respecting the establishment of the British Columbia Treaty
Commission.
Hon. A. Raynell Andreychuk: Honourable senators, it is with
pleasure and some trepidation that I rise today to participate in
this debate at the second reading of Bill C-107, respecting the
establishment of the British Columbia Treaty Commission.
Bill C-107 will provide confirmation of Canada's obligation
under the B.C. Treaty Commission Agreement. It is a very
serious undertaking. It is also an opportunity to make progress.
The past summer in British Columbia was one of the worst
summers of discontent. There was fear, anguish, violence, and
very nearly death. The rule of law was flouted. Governments
seemed paralysed by indecision.
To an unfortunate extent, public goodwill bas been eroded
toward legitimate native grievances. Legitimate grievances exist
and persist if governments do not ensure consultation and efforts
are not made toward developing understanding and consensus on
the important matter of the lands, waters and bounty of British
Columbia.
The place for native/non-native dialogue is not atop a
barricade. Grievances should never be settled at the point of a
gun. Progress will not happen as a result of expensive,
do-nothing solutions produced by the vast Native Affairs
bureaucracy.
The establishment of the British Columbia Treaty Commission
will enable us to commence a process that has a chance of
working. It guarantees consultation at a pace agreed upon by the
peoples most concerned - those at the grassroots.
The B.C. Treaty Commission Agreement was signed on
September 20, 1992 by the Progressive Conservative
government, the Government of British Columbia, and an
organization called "the First Nations Summit." The agreement
endorsed the 1990 British Columbia Claims Task Force Report
which recommended a new treaty-negotiation process for British
Columbia. The Liberal government, elected in October of 1993
- 26 months ago - inherited this insightful and honourable
effort just as they inherited so many other excellent initiatives.
The commission's purpose is to facilitate the treaty negotiation
process; it will not negotiate or make decisions on entitlement.
The commission will be the keeper of the process by which
negotiations can proceed effectively to resolution. The
negotiations will be carried out among the individual First
Nations and the two governments.
I read with some interest the Minister of Indian Affairs'
introduction of the bill on October 19, 1994 when he said that:
... its aims and objectives lie close to the heart of
government.

December 6, 1995

2423
2423

SENATE DEBATES

SENATE DEBATES

December 6. 1995

On motion of Senator Marchand, bill referred to the Standing
Senate Committee on Aboriginal Peoples.

He added that:
...his Ministry's goal for Canada is to develop a Canada
where aboriginal children would grow up in secure families
and healthy communities with the opportunity to take their
full place in Canada.
This emphasis on security and health of communities is an
important commitment by the minister. He will be held to it. All
communities in British Columbia will become more secure and
healthy when the uncertainty that has prevailed in British
Columbia over native land claims is combatted with rigorous
consultation.
It would be natural if Canadians, and certainly if First Nations
peoples, felt despondent about the matter of native
self-government and native issues in general because, in fact, we
do talk and talk but often little is done. Real, honest consultations
have been lacking.
The recognition of an inherent right of self-government would
not, by itself, meet the aspirations of native peoples. In short, it
would not, by itself, solve the challenges that confront natives,
nor would it redress historic injustices.
The quest of the First Nations Summit for treaties requires
what the Honourable Jean Charest calls "result-oriented
government."
Canadian achievements in the area of native rights, such as
Nunavut, have often been remarkable. With the helpful vigilance
of the native peoples themselves, solutions to complex questions
will yield tangible measures.
Often, however, we pay lip service to section 35 of the
Constitution. It is time that we, in fact, lived by our rule of law.
Many British Columbians imagine that improved access to
land, waters, resources, and certainty regarding Indian land
claims in B.C. will address, in part, our indebtedness to native
peoples and be the start of something honourable and prosperous.
I believe that Bill C-107 is, in the main, a valuable piece of
legislation. However, it should be studied by the committee,
word for word and clause by clause, to ensure that its aspirations
are, in fact, attainable.
Hon. Len Marchand: Honourable senators

-

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, if the
Honourable Senator Marchand speaks now, his speech will have
the effect of closing the debate on second reading of this motion.
Senator Marchand: Honourable senators, I thank Senator
Andreychuk for her remarks on the bill. It appears as if there may
be unanimous approval of this bill. I commend its passage to
honourable senators.
Motion agreed to and bill read second time.
REFERRED TO COMMITTEE

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, when shall this
bill be read the third time?

ELECTORAL BOUNDARIES
READJUSTMENT BILL, 1995
MOTION TO INSTRUCT LEGAL AND CONSTITUTIONAL AFFAIRS
COMMITTEE TO TABLE FINAL REPORT-DEBATE ADJOURNED

Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government), moved:
That it be an instruction of this House to the Standing
Senate Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs that
no later than Wednesday, December 13, 1995, it present its
final report to the Senate on the Message from the House of
Commons dated June 20, 1995, and on the motion of the
Honourable Senator Graham dated June 28, 1995, regarding
Bill C-69, An Act to provide for the establishment of
electoral boundaries commissions and the readjustment of
electoral boundaries.
Hon. Sharon Carstairs: Honourable senators, I do not wish to
speak today to the POINT OF ORDER

Hon. Noël A. Kinsella: Honourable senators, I rise on a point
of order.
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable Senator Kinsella, are you
rising on a point of order?
Senator Kinsella: Yes, Your Honour.
Honourable senators, the point of order which I rise on today
has to do with the motion that has been moved by Senator
Graham and which my colleague Senator Carstairs has begun to
debate.
I object to the Senate considering this motion because I
believe it to be in direct contravention of our rule 63 in that the
motion is dealing with a matter the substance of which was
considered by the Senate and voted on by the Senate, which vote
was negatived. Rule 63(1) clearly provides:
A motion shall not be made which is the same in
substance as any question which, during the same session,
has been resolved in the affirmative or negative, unless the
order, resolution, or other decision on such question has
been rescinded as hereinafter provided.
That is to say, provided by subsection rule 63(2).
As honourable senators are aware, that rule speaks to the
extraordinary tests that must be met to rescind such a motion,
which involve five days' notice and at least two-thirds of the
senators present voting in favour of that motion.
Last week, on another motion that was attempted to be put
before us, I had occasion to rise on another point of order. His
Honour made a ruling on that point of order. There were several
elements to the debate which were duly considered by His
Honour.

As senators will recall, it was pointed out that it was felt that
because there had been a certain time span between the motion
that had been considered by the Senate and voted upon, and the
time that was mentioned in the motion then before the bouse,
they were, therefore, different matters. I review that because the
point of order I am raising today is being raised at a different
point than the one raised last week.
Honourable senators, this matter is of some seriousness
because it speaks to the order of the assembly and the rights of
all senators to know what is before them in their deliberations, as
well as to know when a decision is made in a given session and
what that decision is.
If one were to accept the argument that a senator merely needs
to recommend, after a vote had been taken on a motion, that the
date be changed and then introduce the same motion, then the
whole purpose of rule 63(2) would be redundant. Why have a
superior test that has to be met when the assembly intends to
change a decision that had been taken deliberately? The fact that
we have rule 63(2) certainly infers that. However, I think that it
is more a matter of consequence than simply inference. There is
one of implication, that is, because we have rule 63(2), it is of a
higher order; it is just not something in the procedural literature;
rather, it is a rule of this chamber and therefore carries much
more weight than what a learned scholar on procedure argues in
his or her writings.
The very existence of rule 63(2) implies that there must be a
significant, substantial difference in the matter that is being
deliberated upon by the Senate in order for it to be rescinded.
Honourable senators, I checked the Companion to the Ru/es of
the Senate which we all have available to us. At pages 190 and
following there is a good review of the history and the purpose of
rule 63. We should reflect upon what is stated therein. I think it is
clear that the point of order that I wish to make on this motion is
that we are focusing very specifically, in a very limited way, on
the motion that is before us. That is to say, it is part of the Orders
of the Day and it is seeking to undo something which we did on
November 22.
If we were to make that change, then we would have to meet
the test of rule 63(2), which I think would create chaos.
The other point is this: We do not want to find ourselves in the
situation of a senator coming forward every other day and saying
that he or she will move a motion on a matter which has been
decided previously, with the only change being the date. It could
go on and on and we would make no progress at all.
I draw the attention of His Honour and honourable senators to
Bourinot's Parliamentarv Procedure, fourth edition, at page 328
where the matter of renewal is deait with after the question has
been put. It provides, in part, that when the question on a motion
has been put by the Speaker to the bouse for its determination, it
is then in the possession of the house.
We were seized of the question, which is the substance of the
motion hefore us today. We were seized of that question several
weeks ago and we made a deliberate determination on it.
Effectively. we are iow being asked to reconsider il. If we are to
reconsider it then I submit rule 63(2) must apply.
[ Scnator Kinsella 1

However, in the alternative, and perhaps mutatis mutandis, il is
more important that we not allow that to occur because the
general practice in Parliament is that a matter which has been the
subject of the judgment of the House and where that judgment
has already been expressed, the matter is disposed of and it is not
until a new session that that question may appear again.
As Bourinot states at page 328 of the fourth edition:
It is, however, an ancient rule of Parliament that "no
question or motion can regularly be offered if it is
substantially the same with one on which the judgment of
the house has already been expressed during the current
session". The old rule of parliament reads: "That a question
being once made, and carried in the affirmative or negative,
cannot be questioned again, but must stand as a judgment of
the house".
Honourable senators, my submission is that this bouse has
made its judgment on this substantive matter. That judgment
cannot be overturned save and except by the measure provided
for in rule 63(2).
senators, on
Hon. John B. Stewart: Honourable
November 30, His Honour dealt with the main point now raised
by Senator Kinsella. On that occasion the Speaker quoted the
terms of the motion which Senator Carstairs proposed to move.
He said:
The second objection relates to the point of order raised by
Senator Phillips, that a motion that has already been decided
cannot be raised again.
In dealing with that, His Honour said:
I have examined the earlier motion of Senator Fairbairn,
seeking to have the Committee on Legal and Constitutional
Affairs report on the message of the House of Commons
and the motion of Senator Graham that was defeated on
division last week. That motion proposed that the committee
report no later than Wednesday, November 22. This new
motion orders the committee to report no later than Monday,
December 1l.
As I understand Senator Kinsella, he is saying that the motion
which has been moved this afternoon is substantially the same as
the one to which the Speaker referred as "the earlier motion"
because, of course, Senator Carstairs' proposed motion never
became a motion because it was found to be out of order.
If Senator Kinsella's point this aftemoon is to prevail, he will
have to show that the ruling His Honour made on November 30
does not apply to this motion in the way that it applied to the
motion of Senator Carstairs, if indeed she had made that motion.
There is another more serious point to consider, although it
may not be the decisive one. We must distinguish between
different kinds of motions. Obviously. we make the motion to
adjourn from time to time, and such a motion might be defeated.
That does not become a bar to moving that motion an hour or
two later. I say that just to get us into the water.
Motions are of two kinds: First. there is a motion which seeks
to have the house. in this case the Senate. fornulate a resolution:
and a resolution adopts a principle or states the views or the

December 6,

1995

December 6, 1995

SENATE DEBATES
SENATE DEBATES

opinion of the house. Second, we have motions which relate to
how we do our business, that is, motions which relate to our
domestic order.
I have not had occasion to check the precedents in this regard.
However, I think honourable senators will find that, historically.
the rule against repetitious motions is a rule against asking the
house to reverse its opinion or to change its views on a proposed
principle during the same session. That is why an attempt to have
a second reading motion for the same bill in a session is ruled out
of order. It would be an attempt to have the house adopt a
principle that had already been rejected by the house.
However, when we come to matters of domestic order, we are
on different ground. I should like to cite an example of how it is
different. I will illustrate my point by an example. I am referring
to Erskine May.
There is the motion called the "previous question" and that
motion is that the question be not now put. Erskine May explains
the implications of putting a previous question which was agreed
to by stating:
If it be resolved in the affirmative, the Speaker is prevented
from putting the original question as the House has thus
refused to allow it to be put. The original motion may,
however, be brought forward again on another day, as the
decision of the House merely binds the Speaker not to put
the question thereon at that time.
Let us assume, for example, on a question on third reading the
house decided that it did not want the question to be put now and
that was negatived. However, on the following day it would still
be in order to put the question. Even though the question was put
and negatived on one day, on the following day it would still be
in order to move the same motion a second time, or a third time
or fourth time on successive days. There is a decision on the
motion that the question be not now put.

Senator Lynch-Staunton: To postpone.
Senator Stewart: No. There is no question of postponement.
It is that it be not now put this day. It is still in order to move
exactly the same motion on the next day or the day after that.
The
that it
house
affairs

reason it is possible to move exactly the sarne motion is
does not state an opinion, a resolution or a view of the
on a substantive matter; it is a matter of the domestic
of the house.

I mention that in a sense as a footnote to my earlier comments. I
think that His Honour has already answered the question by the
decision he gave on November 30, 1995 when Senator Carstairs
attempted to bring forward a motion and the Speaker ruled that the
proposed motion would be out of order by reason of the motion
which had been dealt with earlier.
Honourable senators. I wanted to raise this other point because I
think we might slide into a situation which would be embarrassing
for us if, in the future, we did not distinguish between motions which
determine the views of the house for a session. and motions which
deal with the conduct of our business.

2425
2425

Hon. Orville H. Phillips: Honourable senators, I agree with
Senator Kinsella that rule 63(1) prohibits the introduction of this

motion. It is very definite. It makes no exceptions.
I should like to refer to one part of His Honour's ruling last
week, where he stated:
... we are soon approaching an extended adjournment or a
possible prorogation of the parliamentary session ...

Honourable senators, I have no idea where that information
came from. We on this side have no information of an
adjournment, and we have no information of a possible
prorogation. I heard the rumour last December of a possible
prorogation. I heard it again at Easter, and again in June. I find a
reference to it in a ruling made by His Honour.
It is most unusual to use the rumour mill as the basis for
making our decisions. We should have a more reliable basis upon
which to reach a decision than the rumour mill. I would hope that
His Honour will reconsider at least that portion of his ruling.
I would raise the question of the procedure leading up to the
decision which was made on this motion. The two motions are
identical except for the dates. Everyone was notified, and a
decision of the Senate was to be taken. If honourable senators
look around the chamber today, they will see that the attendance
was much greater when that vote was taken than it is today. I
submit to His Honour, with the greatest of respect, that the
decision has already been taken. It was taken by almost 98 out of
104 senators.

Senator Prud'homme: The Speaker did not vote that day.
Senator Phillips: Thank you very much for the correction,
senator.
With the exception of those who were unavoidably absent, or
late, the full Senate took the decision, and they took it with the
understanding that it was to be the final decision. The whip sent
out a notice to everyone. We saw senators whom we had not seen
for a long time.
I am sure that, if Your Honour will reflect, rule 63 definitely
applies today; and it applied when the previous vote was taken.
Senator Graham: Honourable senators, in his ruling on

November 30, the Speaker referred to a motion that we dealt
with earlier in the Senate on Bill C-69. To quote from the
Debates of the Senate:

...I am persuaded that, on the whole, there is sufficient
difference in this motion, in comparison with the one that
was proposed last week, to allow it.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: Read the whole sentence.
Senator Graham: That is it.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: That cornes after a comma.
Senator Graham: Honourable senators, this is exactly what
we are doing today. The motion today is in conformity with the
Speaker's ruling of November 30. In fact, the motion today
actually flows from that ruling. With ail respect. I submit that by
asking the Speaker to reverse himself. we would. in effect. be
putting His Honour in an intolerable position.

Senator Lynch-Staunton: You have had your share of doing
that.
Senator Carstairs: Honourable senators. Senator Kinsella
made reference to the Companion to the Rides of' t/he Senlate,
page 109. 1 would refer hlm to page 189. 1 tbink that indeed the
Companion is very clear as to specifically what applies under
aile 63 and what does not apply under rule 63. It states:
This rule may generally be referred to as the "same
question rule"...
It goes on to state:
"That no bill of the same substance be brougyht in the same
session."
0f that there is no question. It then elearly indicates wbat we are
debating at this moment. It states:
The same question rule, bowever, has a somewhat limited
application with regard to the' motions proposed during the
passage of a bill in the Senate. For example. certain
amendments such as a six month hoist may be proposed at
both second and third readings. As well. Rule 77 provides
that, "At any time before a bill is passed a Senator may
move for the reconsideration of' any clause thereof already
canried."
Clearly. it is possible, even with rule 63, to have, on a number
of occasions, what are essentially procedural motions rather than
substantive motions. We are clearly dealing with a procedural
motion in this instance. A vote was taken on November 21 which
was very specitkc. It said that there would not be an order of this
bouse to require the Legal and Constitutional Attairs Committee
to report the next day. That is ail we voted on. We did not vote on
Bill C-69. We are now being asked to support a motion whicb
would say that the committee should report on December 13.
Presumably those on the other side were not opposed to the
bill being voted on because, if they were going to take that
stance. then they would have, in fact, voted against the bill. If
tbey did not vote against the bill, tbey simply voted on a date and
time. They now have an opportunity to vote on another date and
time. The committee bas bad almost two additional weeks to
study the debate and to propose, perhaps, new amendments to the
bill. The fact that the committee has not met in that time is
somewhat irrelevant.
This is clearly another procedural motion asking that tbis bill
be brougbt from committee to the floor of this bouse so that
debate in this cbamber can take place on Bill C-69.

nmotion. According to our rules. a dilatory or procedural motion
can be moved at any time. and witbout notice. The govemnment
acknowledges that Senator Grabam's motion is a substantive
motion by baving given the required notice and by baving
presented it in this form. Tbere is no question but that it is
covered squarely by rule 63(1) as a substantive motion.
Therefore, rule 63(1) applies.
It is up to the Speaker to decide whether this motion of Senator
Graham's is the same in substance as tbe question wbicb we
resolved some 10 days ago. It is certainly obvious to me that it is
exactly the same, and tberefore would be found to be out of order
under rule 63(l).
My purpose in rising is to rebut the contention of Senator
Carstairs tbat this is simply a procedural motion. It is not; it is a
substantive motion.

Hon. H.A. Oison: Honourable senators, we sbould
acknowledge that members opposite bave now agreed that there
are different kinds of motions. Senator Murray cails tbemn
"'procedural" and "substantive." Wbat we are realhy arguing
about bere is wbether or not. by once refusing or voting to not
request a committee to return a bill to the floor of the Senate, that
it can neyer be done again in tbe same session.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: Tbat is rigbt.

Senator Oison: How ridiculous can you get?
Senator Lynch-Staunton: It is in tbe rules.
Senator Oison: Even you do not believe that, Senator
Lynch-Staunton.

Senator Stanbury: It cannot possibly be taie.
Senator Oison: It cannot be taie. Does it apply just to
Bill C-69. or is it applicable to any bill that bas been sent to a
commîttee?
Senators opposite bave said that it is not enough to just change
the date. Senator Kinsella made that comment. Would it be
enougb if we were to change the number of the bill? Would it be
enougb, then. if we were to caîl it Bihl C-71'? We are not dealing
with substance and Senator Murray knows it. We are not dealing
with a substantive motion; we are dealing with a housekeeping,
procedural motion.

Senator Murray: Is this a substantive motion or a procedural
motion? Perbaps, for openers, we sbould bave a ruling on that. If
my friend bas precedlents to back up what be is saying. then let
bim present tbem.
Somne Hon. Senators: Order, order!

Hon. Lowell Murray: Honourable senators. I sbould like to
take a minute ot your time: Senator Stewart in his opening
remarks does us a service by raising the question of adjournment
motions as an example wbicb. even if defeated. can, after an
intervening procedure. be moved again. That is indeed the case.
He does us a service because he draws our attention to the fact
that oui- rules make a distinction between procedural or dilatory
motions o11 the one hand. and substantive motions on the other.

Senator Oison: Perbaps il would be a good idea for senators
opposite to sit down and listen to some reason. to see bow
ridiculous tbey are. In making such an argument. the Senate will
prevent itsellf from ever recalling an act or a bill from a
committee.

Senator Carstairs bas put torvxaid the pIroposition that Senator
hl
Grahain's mot ion i s a procedu ra I mot ion1. is tiot a procedU rai

Senator Oison: Il' 1bonourable senatoîs opposite beliex e that.
then 1I(Io iîot think thelre iS 1ucII uise ilnme and Senator, Stewart.

Senator Lynch-Staunton: That is a Bouchard argument. Do
vou want a î-eterenduin every w~eek?

December 6, 1995
Decem ber 6, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

SENATE DEBATES

who was perfectly logical, trying to make the argument. There
are different kinds of motions. However, even if honourable
senators accept that there are different kinds of motions, they
then say that this one is a substantive motion that is covered
under rule 63(1). That is what senators opposite seem to be
arguing now. I am afraid it is hopeless. There is no use trying to
argue with them.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: I am not ruling on the matter; the
Speaker will do that.
Senator Olson: Unfortunately, I have to address the senators,
but I do hope the Speaker is listening, of course.
In any event, the logical extension of what Senator Kinsella
and others opposite are arguing is so completely ridiculous that I
hope they are not sincerely trying to confine the Senate to that
kind of a box. If that is what they believe, then I am afraid they
may have another motive.
[Translation]
Hon. Jean-Robert Gauthier: Honourable senators, this is a

very interesting debate. We should get back to the essential issue:
is it a substantive or procedural matter?
I respectfully submit it is a procedural matter. Beauchesne's,
citation 559 defines substantive motions as follows:

Substantive motions are self-contained proposals, not
incidental to any proceeding, amendable and drafted in such
a way to be capable of expressing a decision of the House.
Substantive motions usually concern bills or resolutions. In
this House, often the date on which a report is to be presented is
changed. Recently, I was in the Senate when it was decided to
authorize a committee to report at a later date than had been
agreed.
For instance, the Special Joint Committee on a Code of
Conduct was to report to this house by the end of November.
There was a motion to postpone presentation of the report until
the end of March. This did not lead to a lengthy debate because it
was a procedural matter. We agreed that since the committee had
not been allowed enough time, we would extend the deadline. In
this case, only the date was changed.
[English]

In Erskine May, it states that, when a certain motion in relation
to the procedure of the house - and I deal with this motion as a
procedural motion - has been rejected on a particular day, it
may be revived on subsequent days. We do it all the time. I now
hear the Tories arguing that this is a substantive motion. I am
with my colleagues in that I think this is a procedural motion.
Hon. Duncan J. Jessiman: Honourable senators, no one yet

has looked at the definition of "motion" under our own rules. In
the Riles of the Senate of Canada, "motion" is defined as

follows, and I will read the pertinent parts:
"Motion" means a proposai made by a Senator that the
Senate or a comrnmittee thereof do something...

2427
2427

The motion was to instruct the committee to report. We voted
on that. "Motion" as defined comes under rule 63(I).
Hon. Eric Arthur Berntson (Deputy Leader of the
Opposition): Honourable senators, on November 21, 1995, the

motion before us, which was defeated, stated:
That it be the instruction of this House to the Standing
Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs that no later
than Wednesday, November 22, 1995, it present its final
report to the Senate on the Message from the House of

Commons, dated June 20, 1995, and on the motion of the
Honourable Senator Graham dated June 28, 1995, regarding
Bill C-69, An Act to provide for the establishment of
electoral boundaries commissions and the readjustment of
electoral boundaries.
The motion that is before us now, honourable senators, reads
as follows:
That it be an instruction of this House to the Standing

Senate Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs that
no later than Wednesday, December 13, 1995, it present its
final report to the Senate on the Message from the House of

Commons, dated June 20, 1995, and on the motion of the
Honourable Senator Graham dated June 28, 1995, regarding
Bill C-69, An Act to provide for the establishment of
electoral boundaries commissions and the readjustment of

electoral boundaries.
As I understand it, what we are trying to determine now is

whether this is a procedural or a substantive motion. Indeed, the
motions are identical except for the date.
Aside from all the arguments that have been made by Senator
Murray and others as to whether or not this is a substantive or

procedural motion, we need look no further than His Honour's
ruling of November 30, in which he stated, in part:
...1 am persuaded that, on the whole, there is sufficient
difference...
Why would His Honour be looking for difference, if he did not
believe that this was a substantive motion?
The issue has been decided. We now have the Speaker's ruling
which says that what we have before us is a substantive motion.
We must decide whether or not the date alone is enough, indeed,
to allow for a ruling of sufficient difference.
Fortunately, on the motion that was, properly, not put before
the House by Senator Carstairs, the Speaker was able to find

sufficient difference by virtue of some speculation that we might
adjourn for an extended period or prorogue the house. That is ail
well and good. However, with respect, I think it is somewhat
weak. The fact is that we are dealing with a substantive motion,
not a procedural one. Is the date enough to justify that? I say that
it is not.

Hon. Richard J. Stanbury: Honourable

senators, the

difference in date is the essence of this debate. If I ask you to do
something tomorrow. and you say, "No, I am not going to do it
tomorrow". is there any reason why tomorrow I cannot say:
"Well, will you do it now?"
Senator Berntson: It is procedural.

Senator Stanbury: Whether you call it procedural or
substantive, I am saying that it is ridiculous to suggest that if the
Senate decides today that it does not want the committee to
report, it cannot say tomorrow that it does want it to report.
There no precedents for this situation. No committee has ever
been in this situation.
Senator Berntson: Honourable senators, my learned friend
eloquently advances an argument to which I must respond,
because it is almost as ridiculous as what he alleges is ridiculous
on this side.
If we were to take his argument to its conclusion, and we had
identical motions before this house every day, the only difference
being the date, we could, stretching this logic to its limit, have
that motion, except for the date, changed every day, 365 times a
year. Why, then, would we even bother having rule 63 in the rule
book?
Senator Murray: Honourable senators, on the question of
whether this is a procedural or substantive motion, I did not have
much luck in English in convincing my friends opposite.
Therefore, in response to Senator Gauthier:
[Translation]
I would respectfully draw his attention to rule 23(4), regarding
dilatory and procedural motions, which provides, and I quote,
that:
...dilatory or procedural motions, which can be moved
without notice and must be decided without debate.
Senator Graham gave 24 hours' notice in the case of the
motion currently before us. A debate was held, in the case of an
essentially identical motion resolved ten days ago. Clearly, then,
we are talking about a substantive and not a procedural motion,
according to the definition in our rules.
[En glish]

I take the question of rulings seriously. If I am prepared to rule
now. it is not because I have not given this matter serious
consideration. I have met with my Table Officers on several
occasions to thoroughly discuss this matter. Thus, I would make
it clear that my decision has not been taken suddenly or lightly.
I would refer honourable senators to page 2390 of the Debates
of the Senate of November 30, where my first comments on this
matter can be found. At that time, I made the point that the issue
is not as simple as it may seem. Once again, the discussion of
this afternoon attests to that.
At page 2390, I quoted from Erskine May, where I said:
...or an amendment which is the same, in substance, as a
question which has been decided during a session may not
be brought forward again...
However, I also stated that Erskine May goes on to explain
that whether the second motion is substantially the same is
finally a matter for the judgment of the Chair. I now find myself
in the position of having to make a judgment call. That is not an
easy task. Several aspects must be considered.
It was suggested that I was speculating on when this session
might finish. Perhaps that is speculation. However, one thing is
certain: Christmas Day is on December 25. There is no
speculation in that regard. If we were to follow normal Senate
procedure and practice, we would finish our work at the end of
next week. However, that may not happen; we may continue.
I believe the original notice of motion was given on
November 2. It is now December 6. Therefore, considerable time
has elapsed since the first notice was given. The vote was taken
two weeks ago. It seems to me that the time difference in a
circumstance such as this is a valid consideration. It is
conceivable that, as time marches on, senators may adopt a
different point of view from that which they had two or three
weeks ago.
Some Hon. Senators: Oh, oh!

Hon. Marcel Prud'homme: Honourable senators, I have
already said enough on this subject. However. I should like to say
that this reminds me somewhat of the referendum question,
where the PQ government says, "I will make you vote until we
get the results we want."
Senator Graham: Honourable senators, before the Speaker
rises, I would draw the attention of the Honourable
Senator Prud'homme, and other honourable senators, to rule 98
which states:
The committee to which a bill has been referred shall
report the bill to the Senate.
Senator Berntson: We will.
Senator Graham: What we are asking is to let Parliament do
its work.
SPEAKERS RULING

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators. if no other
honourable senator wishes to participate in the debate. I would
thank all of those who have participated.

The Hon. the Speaker: That is a decision for the Senate to
make, not the Speaker.
In addition to the conditions I mentioned last week related to
the different time elements proposed in this motion as compared
to the first motion, I draw honourable senators' attention to a
portion of that discussion related to the procedural/substantive
question. I will not go into detail on that; however, it is a point
that honourable senators should keep in mind.
There are certainly precedents whereby the Senate has
changed dates without rescinding the previous order. I would
remind honourable senators that we frequently adopt orders of
reference for special studies with a fixed reporting date. We set
up a special committee and instruct the committee to report by a
particular date. On more than one occasion, the reporting date
has been changed. Never, to my knowledge, have we questioned
whether we had to rescind the previous decision. The decision to
change the date was made hy a motion on the floor of the Senate.
There was no regard to the fact that the same question was before
the Senate with the only difference being a change in date.
Based on mv ruling of November 30. as well as further study
which indicated that, indeed. we have changed dates in regard to

December 6, 1995

December6,
1995SENATE
DEBATES

instructions to committees on previous occasions without
rescinding, it being done simply by a decision of the Senate. 1
conclude that the motion is in order.
Hon. Sharon Carstairs: Honourable senators, as 1 said earlier,
1 do flot wish to speak to the principles of Bill C-69 tuday. 1 shahl,
however, speak to the process. Nothing would please me more
than to have Bill C-69 before this chamber where debate on the
strength and weaknesses of that bill could take place. That is
what this motion purports te, do.
I should like to, give a brief history of this bill and its
predecessor, Bill C-18, which have been before this chamber for
quite some time -almost two years to be exact. The bill was
retumned to the House of Commons with amendments in May of
this year. The House of Commons rejected ail but one of the
Senate amendments and returned the bill to this chamber on
June 20, 1995.
Despite the desire on this side to dehate and vote on the
proposition that we, as a chamber, flot insist on our amendrnents,
Bill C-69 was retumned to the Standing Senate Committee on
Legal and Constitutional Affairs, and there it remains. and
remains.
The question arises: Why is it stili there? Is it stili there
because there are so many witnesses that we cannot possibly hear
them ail? To my knowledge, there is flot a single witness waiting
to be heard on this particular bill. The question then arises: Is it
because the Legal and Constitutional Affairs Committee is
meeting momning, noon and night and simply does flot have
enough hours in the day to deal with this particular piece of
legislation? The answer to that question is also no.
This bill bas been sitting in committee because the other side
has determined that tbey simply will flot allow the bill to corne te,
a vote. This has been the case since July of this year, some five
months. There bas been exactly one meeting on Bill C-69 since
that time.
A second meeting was scheduled. Staff were on caTi and ready
to conduct a ciause-by-clause study of the bill on Tuesday,
November 21, but that meeting was cancelied. L was cancelied
presumably because the committee was flot at ahi under any
instruction from this house to report.
The question that must be answered, is: Is this process
pariiamentary? I would suggest, honourable senators, that it is
flot.
Senator Pitfield bas indicated that he bas real problems witb
Bihl C-69. On November 22, be stated bis difflculty with the
process. He said:
Perhaps 1 amn unduly influenced by the scene Iast nigbt
wben our colleagues denied, as 1 see it, tbe elected
government the right to manage the govemment's business.
Vote down the electoral boundaries, as sorne of us wanted to
do, but do flot refuse us the right to bring it out of committee
so we cannot vote at ail.
Senator Pitfield bas addressed the essence of this question.
That question is the right of ail senators to debate and to vote on
Bill C-69. By ieaving it in committee and. in tumn. by flot
scheduling a committee meeting I0 consider Bill C-69, no one,
neitber members of the cornmitice nor members of this chamber
are able to debate and vote.

2429
22

In response to a question posed by Senator Gauthier to the
Chairman of tbe Standing Senate Committee on Legal and
Constitutional Affairs, Senator Beaudoin. as to wben this bill will
be returned to tbis cbamber tbe Cbairman replied. and I quote:
I arn perfectly prepared to bave the committee sit to bear
other witnesses and prepare a report before Cbristrnas, if
you like.
The next day, in a further comment, Senator Beaudoîn stated:
a report is out of the question for now.
Clearly, it is the intention on the part of those wbo control this
committee to ]et tbe bill die in committee. Why?
If the committee accepts the view of constitutional specialist
Professor Hutchinson that tbe bill is unconstitutional, rejecting
the view of Professor Baines that tbe bill is indeed constitutional,
then let us vote on this matter.
As senators, we have a responsibility flot to support
unconstitutional legislation. If honourable senators believe that
Bill C-69 is unconstitutional, then they must cast their votes
accordingly. However, it is flot parliamentary, nor is it very
brave, for this chamber to abrogate its responsibiiity by flot
voting at aIl.
Senator Pitfield and I would clearly vote differently on
Bill C-69. However, we are in total agreemnent tbat this vote
should be held.
Honourable senators, I urge you to listen to Senator Pitfield,
and I repeat what he said:
Vote down tbe electoral boundaries, as some of us wanted to
do, but do flot refuse us the right to bring it out of committee
s0 we cannot vote at ail.
On motion of Senator Bemtson, debate adjourned.
PEARSON INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT
AGREEMENTS ACT
MOTION TO INSTRUCT LEGAL AND CONSTITUTIONAL AFFAIRS
COMMI1TEE TO TABLE FINAL REPORT-DEBATE ADJOURNED

Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy
Government), moved:

Leader of the

That it be an instruction of tbis House to the Standing
Senate Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs that
no hater than Wednesday, December 13, 1995, it present its
final report to the Senate on the motion and the Message
referred to it on October 5, 1994, relating to certain
amendments to Bill C-22, An Act respecting certain
agreements concerning tbe redevelopment and operation of
TerminaIs 1 and 2 at Lester B. Pearson International Airport.
Hon. Richard J. Stanbury: Honourable senators, once again,
we are debating a motion to require the Legal and Constitutional
Affairs Cornmittee to report a bill to this chamber. Bihl C-22 is an
important piece of legishation. It would cancel the Pearson airport
agreements and establisb a regime for the assessment of' darnage
claims arising out of that canceilation. Most important. il would
fulfil an election commilmeni made by the Prime Minister to the

people of Canada. an election commilment
frustrated by a few individuals iii Ibis house.

that hias been

preparation f'or my appearance this morning 1 reread the
testirnonv 1 gave on July 4 last. Nothing that has been said
in the intervening months causes me to change my view of'
the constitutional validity of Bill C-22 as originally enacted
by the House of Commons.

1 do not stand here today ho debate the merits of Bill C-22. The
issue today is whether we will ever gel the opportunity t0 debate
the merits of' that bill- whether 1 will have the opportunity 10
persuade you. openly and in full view of the Canadian people.
In what the minister described as "a continuing effort engaged
why I arn convinced that the bill is valid, wbether somieone else in by both sides to l'nd common ground on the important points
will have the opportunity 10 stand up publicly and try 10 persuade
in issue conccernin thec rule of law. access to the courts and
me that 1 arn wrong; and whether we will have the opporîunity 10 constitutionality." hie explained the second set of amendiments
put the malter te a vote or decision by this wbole chamber.
proposed for the legislation.
Public debate and public vote are why we are here. They are
the cornerstone of our parliamentary system and our role in that
system. but they are being tbwarted by seven senators. members
of the Legal and Constitutional Affairs Committee. who are
refusing t0 release Bill C-22 10 this chamber.
Bill C-22 was tirst sent t0 the Legal and Constitutional Affairs
Committee in June 1994 - 18 months ago. After hearing several
witnesses, the committee reported the bill back 10 this charnber
with certain amendments. I opposed those amendments. I
believed then. as 1 do now, that they would have gutted the bill
and frustrated the will of the Canadian electorate. Indeed, the
amendments were rejected by the elected majority of the House
of Commons.
The message from the other place was referred 10 the Legal
and Constitutional Affairs Committee on October 5. 1994. There
il bias sat for 14 months. For the first three months the committee
heard witnesses who raised questions and issues about various
provisions of' the bill, debated amiong tbemselves and with
committee members. and generally assisted the commiîtee with
ils study of the bill. In a good-taith effort 10 speed the bill"s
progress through the committee, in December 1994, onc year
ago. the govemment presented a series of amendiments
specitically designed t0 address the concemns wrtnesses had
raised. The amendments clearly went very far toward satisfying
the concerns of the wiînesses who had opposed the bill. Only two
witnesses retumed t0 object 10 provisions of the bill as il would
have been amended.
Once again. the government attempted 10 resolve the
différences between the two sides by proposing further
amendments 10 meet these latest objections, and once again the
govemment was met with new objections; objections that gained
in creativity wbat they lacked in legal substance.
At that point. there could no longer be any doubt about tbe
motives or objectives of' the Conservative majority in the
committee. This was no longer a serious legal and constitutional
anahysis of proposed hegishation; il had become a partisan baîthe,
and il saddens me deeply to have 10 say. as someone who
witnessed the hearings. that the Canadian Constitution and the
principle ot the rule of' haw were transformed mbt mere bools or
weapons for this baIlle.
Twice the Minister (i Justice appeared 10 answer questions and
saîisly commitîce memibers that the bill was constitutional and
he-ally valid under the Caniadian law. He was very chear. On
May h6. 1995. bie said:
With Lreat respect to those 'Ali h ave expressed their
opinion, aiîd i.eser\ allons about the originial bill. ini
1 Seniraw Stanlhtiix

Professor Wayne MacKay. a constitutional law professor at
Dalhousie Law School. was equally clear when hie testified on
these amendments. "At ail three points in time." hie said. that is
before any amendments, after the firsî set of amendments and
aflter the second set of' amendiments, -my bottom fine has heen
that there are not constitutional problems with this bill."
One by one, respected legal scholars declined 10 lend their
names and reputations to the Conservative members'
manipulation of legal principles. The Canadian Bar Associatiorn,
which had testified earlier on the bill, expressly refused to allow
its name to be used to endorse the testimony of one of its
members who appeared before the committee last May when hie
argued that the bill continued to be invalid and unconstitutional.
1 think the last hearing held on the bill was particularlv
revealing. One of the grounds of attack used by the Conservative
committee members related to Canada's obligations under the
North American Free Trade Agreement and whether Bill C-22
would violate those obligations.
At the hast hearing. Mr. Konrad von Finckenstein testified.
Mr. von Finckenstein is a senior lawyer with the Department of'
Justice. He negotiated NAFTA and the UTA. Intimately familiar
with the obligations of those agreements. hie was able 10 assure
the commitîee that Bill C-22 would not place Canada in a breach
of its international obligations.
This should have resolved the issue. Instead. f'aced with strong
and persuasive evidence that the bill was unobjectionable. legally
and constitutionally, the Conservative members of the commitcee
used their majority position 10 muzzle further discussion and
debate. Almost six months have passed and the committee hias
taken no f'urther action on Bihl C-22. No wrtnesses have been
scbeduled. The attempts by Liberal members of tbe committee to
schedule the bill for a vote have been rebuffed. In other words,
seven members of tbis chamber have successfulhy bijacked an
important piece of legisiation. Their ransom? Nothing less than
breacb oM'promise ho the Canadian electorate.
Honourable senators. 1 have served in the Senate for over
25 years. For 20 of' those years 1 have served on the Legal and
Constitutional Affairs Committee with pride and satisfaction that
we were considerrng the legal issues of buis and other matters
witb care, professionalism and a strong consciousness of our duty
and role. 1 arn proud 10 say that our deliberations were often
nonpartisan. 1 have been pleased to serve under the chairmanship
of' ny colleague opposite. Senator Beaudoin.
Clearly. soniething lias cbangi:ed. Today. we are dehating not
oneC but two motions to requirc the Legal and Con1StituItioli
Ail airs Coirniittee to report legi slatioiî baek to tbis ebambher se
that the mierits of'those hills cari he dechated openly, l reely and iii

December 6, 1995

December6,
1995SENATE
DEBATES

the public eye. Instead, the bis lie buried. bidden front view and
debate. Our requests in committee to bring tbem forward for
consideration even by the wbole committee have been rejected
out of hand.
Here in this chamber on November 28, the Honourabie
Senator Jean-Robert Gauthier asked the Chairman of the Legal
and Constitutional Affairs Committee, the Honourable Senator
Beaudoin, when the Senate could expect a report front the
committee on Bill C-22. At that time, Senator Beaudoin replied:

2431
23

Senator Stanbury: He went on to say:
It must be conscious at ail times of the will of the eiected
representatives. This is particuiarly truc of government
poiicy supported by a majority of commoners. In this case.

bowever, it is not the policy that we challenge canceliation of Pearson agreements - but the principle
wbicb is being violated - denial of access to the courts. It
is as simple as that.

Wbat he was concerned about was denial of access to the
courts. Noble words, but let us not be misled by these words, for
this senator, Senator Lyncb-Staunton, wbo is, of course, an
ex officio member of the committee that will flot release this bill,
is purporting to defend the principle of access to the courts by
denying access to this chamber, access to public debate, and to a
public vote; in short, denying access to the fundamental
He said the committee would report the bill but, as yet, we do institutions of our parliamentary democracy.
flot have it.
One of the professors, described by Senator Beaudoin as an
expert, and invited by my Conservative colleagues to testify on
The next day Senator Beaudoin rose to correct bis previous Bill C-22, was Professor Andrew Heard of the Simon Fraser
answer. He said:
Institute. He was asked to comment about the propriety of the
As for Bill C-22, the experts who came to testify have Senate's continuing to challenge Bill C-22 after the other place
rejected the amendments. He did not mince bis words when
clearly established that the bill remains unconstitutional; in hadsaid:
be
the absence of new amendment proposais from the
goverfiment, the bill is stili in committee.
I believe the Senate bas the opportunity to deal witb the bill
effectively on one occasion. Having done that, having
Do senators in this bouse accept the opinion of those experts
forced the House of Commons to reconsider and debate the
as against the great preponderance of evidence as to, the bill's
issue again, if the House of Commons makes its wiIl clear,
constitutionaiity? How do we find out that they do if no report is
my view is that the Senate sbouid ultimateiy yield on its
made to the Senate? Has the committee any suggestion from the
consideration of the House of Commons' insistence on the
minister that furtber amendments wiIi be forthcoming? If not, do
original form of the bill.
individuai senators get a chance to decide wbether the many
amendments already made by the minister to accommodate the
Not oniy bas the Conservative majority refused to yieid to the
concemrs, real or imagined, of the seven Conservative members views of tbe elected majority in the other place but it bas refused
of the committee, satisfy any real concernis of senators as a even to allow the question to be debated bere.
whole? How do we [mnd that out if no report is made to the
Senate?
Senator Lynch-Staunton: Like you did on the GST.
1 arn fully prepared to eall the committee again to
consider Bill C-22 and report on it, if you wish, but I must
tell you irnmediateiy that the report will state that the bill
does flot adhere to the principles of the primacy of iaw and
the rule of law, which are part of the Canadian Constitution.

Denying senators the rigbt to debate and vote on a bill is not
the role of the standing committee. Indeed, this approacb
undermines the principles on wbich our committee systemn is
based. Bill C-22 was sent to the Legal and Constitutionai Affairs
Committee after second reading. This chamber had already
approved the principie of the bill. Tbe bill was sent in apparent
good faith to the committee for further study of tbe details of its
provisions.
Yet, this committee has taken it upon itself - not even the full
committee but seven members of that committee - to hoid the
bill, refusing to release it for open debate until the govemnment
offers amendments tbat these members desire but have no
expectation of receiving. Nor do tbey have any intention of
preparing amendments themseives that wouid satisfy their own
desires, or of bringing them forward in a report to this bouse.
In his speech in this chamber over one year ago, in debate on
tbis very bill, Bill C-22, Senator Lyncb-Staunton said:
The Senate. as bas been repeatediy stated over the years.
does not exist to obstruet and deiay indefiniteiy.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: Quite right.

Senator Stanbury: Does that make it proper?
Seven individuais, bonourable senators, have usurped our role;
seven people have decided that tbey know best, that tbey wiIl flot
even allow us to discuss, let alone vote on tbe legislation; seven
people bave decided to bijack the Canadian parliamentary
process and bold it bostage to imposing tbeir preferred policies
on the Canadian government and the Canadian people.
Tbe Senate miles are very clear. Rule 98 states:
Tbe committee to whicb a bill bas been referred shaîl
report the bill to the Senate. When any amendment to the
bill bas been recommended by the committee, sucb
amendmnent shail be stated in tbe report.
The Legal and Constitutional Affairs Committee bas had
Bill C-22 in its present form for 14 montbs. including the
amendments. It heard witnesses and it considered the bill from
ail sides. For the hast six montbs it bas failed to eaul one witness
or scbeduie one meeting to examine the bill. The committee bas
compheted its study. There is no good reason why it does flot
report the bill back to the Senate. Yet. the chairman of the
cominittee bas risen iii tbis chamber to tell us point bhank that.

unless the demands of seven members are met by the
government. that committee will flot report the bill to this
chamber.
So far, two buis are thus being held for political ransom. What
will be next? How else will the declared will of' the Cariadjan
electorate be frustrated? What. then. is our democracy?
Honourable senators, we must recognize these acts for what they
are: Nothing less than abuse of power - for now, a form of
tyranny with respect to a few select conditions, but tyranny
nonetheless.
How can we restore faitb in our committee system?ý 1 have
always believed that our strength and credibility as an institution
is founded Iargeiy on the high quality of' our work in committee.
1 know that many of you share this conviction. But what studies
will be entrusted to committees if there is no trust that they are,
and wiil always remain. accounitable to this chamber and to the
Canadian people? Obviously. we will have to ask our Rules
Committee to prescribe ways in which we can give more explicit
instructions to our committees to avoid this kind of abuse in the
future.
I have neyer believed that because we are appointed to the
Senate we are therefore not accountable to the Canadian people.
In fact, the trust placed in us is. if anything, that much greater.
The traditional checks of the ballot box do flot apply directly. Let
us flot violate that trust. Let us flot undermine the credibility and
respect of this chamber. The chairman of the conlmittee was very
clear: Unless and until he and his Conservative colleagues on the
committee receive amendments that accord with their view of'
what the bill should say, they will flot allow it out of' committee.
That. honourable senators, is seven individuals holding Canadian
policy hostage.

We must put a stop to, this now. 1 ask you. for the credibility of
each of' us and the future work of this institution. to support the
motion to bring this legislation to the floor of this chamber for
debate. Whatever the result. win or lose. we must join together to
stop this dangerous precedent from taking root.
On motion of Senator Bemntson, debate adjoumed.
BUSINESS 0F THE SENATE

Hon. B. Aiasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourable senators, as ail] onourable senators
know. the Senate convenes at 1:30 p.m. on Wednesdays because
committees are sitting. This has been an interesting afternoon,
and 1 thank ail honourable senators for their participation and
patience. After discussions with the leadership opposite, we have
agreed to ask that al] remaining orders. motions, reports and
inquiries stand.

The Hon. the Acting Speaker: Is it agreed. honourable
senators?

Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Motion agreed to.

SPEAKER'S CHRISTMAS PARTY
The Hon. the Acting Speaker: 1 wish to remind honourable
senators that aIl] senators are invited to join the Senate staff at the
Speaker's annual Christmas party which wilI take place in the
Speaker's chambers and the Senate foyer at 5:30 p.m. today.
The Senate adjourned until tomorrow at 2 p.m.

2433

THE SENATE
Thursday, December 7, 1995
The Senate met at 2 p.m., the Speaker in the Chair.
Prayers.
[Translation]

SENATORS' STATEMENTS
LA FRANCOPHONIE
SIXTH SUMMIT HELD IN COTONOU, BENIN

Hon. Jean-Robert Gauthier: Honorable senators, in my
capacity as International Vice-President of the AIPLF, I have just
taken part in the Sixth Summit of the Francophonie held from
December 2 to 4 in Cotonou, Benin.
Canada, represented by the Prime Minister, the Right
Honourable Jean Chrétien, was among the forty-seven states and
governments attending. UN Secretary-General Boutros-Boutros
Ghali also honoured us with his presence.
The forty-seven heads of delegation addressed issues relating
to three major areas: first, the international political situation;
second, the world economic situation and third, the strengthening
of the Francophonie.
As a result of the proceedings, some twenty resolutions, as
well as a statement - the Cotonou Declaration - were adopted
by the heads of delegation during this summit.
Honourable senators, I should like to report to you on the key
results of the summit, in a brief review of some of the points
discussed among the heads of state and of govemment.
The Cotonou Summit was held this year as one of the
activities marking the 50th anniversary of the UN and the
25th anniversary of the Cultural and Technical Cooperation
Agency. The heads of state and of government pointed out that
the Francophonie cannot address the major problems and
challenges facing the planet on the eve of the 21st century in
isolation. Key issues relating to economic and social
development and to the prevention and resolution of conflicts
involve all countries, whether or not they are members of the
Francophonie.
The discussions on preventing conflicts led to a resolution
inspired by the conclusions of the international francophone
meeting held in Ottawa last September, a Canadian initiative.
Among its other resolutions, the summit also formulated one
on supporting democratization, law-abiding societies and human
rights.

With respect to the world economic situation, the summit
adopted a resolution on economic cooperation, recommending in
particular that priority be given to the countries of the south
through savings mobilization, promotion of private enterprise,
development of partnerships, restructuring and regional
integration of the countries of the south, with an emphasis on
sustainable development.
Finally, the summit formulated resolutions on cooperation and
development within francophone institutions, specifically
increasing the francophone presence on the international scene
and launching ambitious initiatives and large-scale projects. The
most significant of these resolutions, since it affects structures, is
the one on the creation of a secretariat of the Francophonie
within the ACCT, the agency of the Francophonie. That
secretariat will probably include an official spokesperson who
will represent the Francophonie on the international level, as
Secretary-General Boutros-Boutros Ghali does the UN.
It was agreed that the heads of state and of govemment of the
countries with French as a common language would meet in
Hanoi, Vietnam in 1997 for the Seventh Summit of the
Francophonie.
[English]

BUSINESS OF THE SENATE
DELAY IN DELIVERY OF OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, before I call on
another honourable senator under Senators' Statements, I should
like to advise honourable senators that there has been a delay in
the production of documents because of the power outage
yesterday. Therefore, some of the documents which we are
accustomed to receiving daily are not ready on time. This is due
to no fault of the staff.
I might add that we have been advised that there could be
further power outages today, creating some problems with the
Oasis system. I would ask for your forbearance with these
problems.
[Translation]

THE SENATE
CRITICISM BY MEMBERS OF THE MEDIA

Hon. Marcel Prud'homme: Honourable senators, this
moming in a newspaper which is read by all the members of the
diplomatic corps, of the House of Commons and of the Senate,
and I am referring to The Hill Times, there is an editorial on -

[En glish]

[En glish]l

The editorial is entitled, "Electoral Boundaries Showdown,- in
which reference is made to comments attributed to a very
esteemed colleague. Dr. Ted McWhinney. who is a great scholar
and Liberal MP from Vancouver.

Perhaps 1 have forgotten one or two names. However. the last
one 1 want bo mention is you. Your Honour. who has served s0
well the Province of Manitoba.

He is quoted as saying that he objects vigorously to
honourable senators holding up Bill C-69. He says this about
senators:

Because we have been attacked. the time may have corne.
honourable senators, for some of us to put our heads together and
tell this fine gentleman from British Columbia that we have no
lessons to learn from anyone.

...who principally couldn't. .. elected as dog-catchers...
Talking about us. he says that the worst offenders are people
who neyer run for public office. I do not know who will help me
draft a nice open letter to him. 1 wiII start now.
If he thinks we have neyer been elected. he is wrong. I count
among us at least 41 who have previously held office. No one
else than, f'or instance. Senator Robichaud[Translation]

UNITED NATIONS

Who would dare day that Senator Robichaud. a great Premier
of New Brunswick. Senator Buchanan. a Premier of Nova Scotia.
and Senator Lise Bacon. Deputy Premier of the Province of
Quebec. did flot serve their country weIl?
[En glish]
Who could forget about Senators Austin and OIson? Who
would deny the long-time service of' Senator MacEachen te, this
country'? Who would deny the service of' Senators Perrault,
Haidasz. Thériault. De Banc. Hervicux-Payette and Carstairs, as
well as Jean-Robert Gauthier, who was a long-time member ot
Pa[liameclt? Who cuuld fuiget Scîtatuis Bonneicl, Rompkey.
Thompson. Corbin and Stewart, who is also a scholar? Who
could forget Senator Stollery. who is a knowledgeable person
about many countries?
On this side of the chamber. who cou Id forget Senators
St.Germnain. Kelleher, Berntson and Carney'? Who could say that
Senator Camey did flot serve her country welI? Then there are
Senators Robertson. Murray and MacDonald. Who would say
that Senator Ottenheimer did flot serve Newfoundland well? Who
would deny that Senators Simard. Cochrane, Rossiter. DeWare.
Lavoie-Roux[Translation]
Senator Lavoie-Roux. an eminent minister of the Quebec
government who served as Minister of Social Affairs; Senator
Comeau, who served his province; Senator Ghitter. who was
Deputy Premier of' the Province of Alberta: Senator Rivest, a
promînent constitutional adviser to the Premier of Quebec:
Senator Forrestail. who served his province f'or many years;
Senator Gustaf'son and many other honourable senators who ran
for public office and are s0 modest I will not refer to themi by
name.

[Scluîat

i tîudIllflliC

1 repeat. for as long as 1 amn a member of this chamber, I do flot
intend to rubber stamp proposed legislation. If Canadians - not
members of the House of Commons - do not like the Senate. it
is f'or them to, decide what te, do with it. We have a constitutional
duty to exercise. and we will exercise it. We are not a rubber
stamp. Not only do I intend not to be pushed around by anyone in
this place, but also 1 certainly do not intend to be pushed around
by members of the House of Commons.

i

INTERNATIONAL HUMAN RIGHTS DAY

Hon. A. Raynell Andreychuk: Honourable senators. I risc
today to note that this Sunday. December 10, is International
Human Rights Day. Some might approach this day with
indifference. but Canadians recognize the importance of' this day.
Perhaps there now exists the notion that human rights are
luxuries to be considered when times are good or when it suits
our interests. This notion, however, is both fallacious and
short-sighted. Human rights must be considered a necessity. if we
are to progress into the next millennium and beyond. In this
regard. long-termn ramifications must be paramount.
Respect for human rights is not only a fundamental value but
also a crucial element in the development of stable, democratic
and prosperous societiesý at peace with each other. Rights are
central to democracy. Indued, the correlatioîi betwecî high levels
of political freedomn and high levels of human development is
well documented.
Canada's traditional commitment [o human rights. world peace
and democratic development has been widely acknowledged. As
Canadians. we hnught in these values hecause wc held themn to
be important. We believed that improvements on the
international stage would foster gains that would also be felt
domestically. It was not only a matter of' principle on our part,
but also about contributing to our own internai well-being.
As Canadians. we also believe that our attention to human
rights offered a reflection of ourse Ives and our society. What was
true then is equally. if flot more, relevant today. The question
remains: What kind of' identity do we seek to promote at home
and abroad?

December 7, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

2435
2435

SENATE DEBATES

December 7, 1995

On International Human Rights Day, let us ponder the future
as we reflect on our past accomplishments in this area. I
encourage ail senators over the course of this year to reflect on
how we, as Canadians, can further this fundamentally worthwhile
cause. When we awaken every day to the right to walk this
country freely and to talk freely, to name only two of our rights,
we should reflect that others in this world do not have these
rights. They pay with their lives.
As we work to overcome our problems, and help others with
their injustices, we must remember that rights must be balanced
with responsibilities to ourselves and to others.
BUSINESS OF THE SENATE
CONFIGURATION OF ORDER PAPER

Hon. H.A. Oison: Honourable senators, I rise to comment on
the Order Paper that is on our desks today. The structure and
format of it, as well as the size of the print, are considerably
different from the Order Paper which we normally find on our
desks.
I prefer this new version. It is an improvement over the old
one. Whether the change in style was caused by power outages or
whatever, it does not matter. The "Daily Routine of Business" is
on the inside of the first page, which is helpful.
I do not propose to make a long speech about it. I only want
honourable senators to know that I prefer it, whatever the cause.
[Translation]

NATIONAL UNITY
QUEBEC REFERENDUM-RELEVANCE OF CBC PROGRAMMING
FOR FRANCOPHONES OUTSIDE QUEBEC

Hon. Jean-Claude Rivest: Honourable senators, I would like
to draw the attention of our friend Senator Thériault to some
comments he made about the Société Radio-Canada. I share his
concerns. The SRC provides very little programming for
francophones outside Quebec. I could not agree more with
Senator Thériault.
As far as media coverage of the referendum campaign is
concerned, however, I simply want to bring to the honourable
senator's attention that a study by an impartial firm indicated that
the SRC had given 50 per cent air time to the "yes" side and
50 per cent to the "no" side.
Since I was invited several times by the SRC to comment as
spokesman for the "yes, no, maybe so" side, I have to say before
this honourable house that I have every confidence in the
journalists and professionals who work for the SRC. I see I am
supported in this by Senator Bacon, who is nodding her
agreement.

Senator Bacon: No, no!
[English]

UNITED NATIONS
UNIVERSAL DECLARATION OF HUMAN RIGHTS

Hon. Noël A. Kinsella: Honourable senators, Senator
Andreychuk bas drawn our attention to the fact that on Sunday
next, we celebrate International Human Rights Day.
A little known historical fact is that on December 10, 1948,
Canada joined the other members of the General Assembly of the
United Nations in proclaiming the Universal Declaration of
Human Rights. However, two days prior, on December 8, 1948,
it was not so clear that Canada would be a signatory to the
declaration. Fortunately, we joined the world community in
marking that standard of achievement, which has become known
as the Magna Carta of the 20th century.
AIl of that is to underscore the point that we have to be
vigilant and alert in the protection and promotion of human
rights in our own country. We can never take human rights for
granted.
Honourable senators, one of the basic human rights recognized
by the Declaration of Human Rights is the right to be free from
racial discrimination. Racial discrimination, race hatred and race
conflict thrive on scientifically false ideas and are nourished by
ignorance. For ail practical social purposes, race is not so much a
biological phenomenon as a social myth. The myth of race has
created an enormous amount of human and social damage.
In recent years, racial discrimination bas taken a heavy toll of
human lives and caused untold suffering. It still prevents the
normal development of millions of human beings and deprives
civilization of the effective cooperation of productive minds. The
biological differences between ethnic groups should be
disregarded from the standpoint of social acceptance and social
action. The unity of humankind, from both the biological and
social points of view, is the main thing. To recognize this and to
act accordingly is the first requirement of a modern society.
q* (1420)

Hon. Doris M. Anderson: Honourable senators, I too wish to
rise to speak about the Human Rights Day on Saturday,
December 10.
Since its adoption on December 10, 1948, the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights has been, and continues to be "the
most important and far-reaching of ail United Nations'
declarations, and a fundamental source of inspiration for national
and international efforts to promote and to protect human rights
and fundamental freedoms." Our own Canadian Charter of
Rights and Freedoms and the human rights legislation of the
provinces clearly reflect the influence of the universal
declaration.

The Universal Declaration of' Human Rights helped chart a
course for individual nations to follow. It set standards which
have become part of international law. and which helped to shape
the domestic policies of many countries.
Honourable senators, in 1948, the members of the
newly formed United Nations realized that "to deny human
beings their basic human rights was to set the stage l'or political
and social unr-est. Human rights affect the daily lives of
everyone." Between countries and individuals there is a
relationship between respect f'or human rights and the
maintenance of peace.
Maxwell Yalden. Chief Commissioner of the Canadian Humait
Rights Commission. stated recently that:
It would be foolhardy and dishonest to suggest that the UN
and the declarations and conventions it has spawned have
created an era of' peace and mutual respect among the
nations and peoples of world. We have only to look at the
atrocities in Rwanda, in the former Yugoslavia and other
trouble spots around the world to see that this is evidently
not the case. When it cornes to international human rights.
the pace of progress is often painfully slow.
He continued:
IL is equally dishonest to focus only on failures. The fact is
that the UN and its agencies have been a major contributor
to stability and the steady advancement of human rights.
Honourable senators. as the United Nations enters its second
haîf century. the challenge ahead is to overcome the easy
cynicism surrounding the UN's effectiveness and ensure that
human rights remain on the international agenda. The world
community now has the responsibility to follow through with the
commitment of the universal declaration to the proposition that
-AIl human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights."
Honourable senators. in 1993. the World Conterence on
Human Rights unanimously reaffirmed the principles ot the
uni versai declaration. Promoting them internationally is therefore
not purely a question of values but a mutual obligation of aIl
members of the international community.
In 1986, Parliament's Special Joint Committee on Canada's
International Relations declared an all-party consensus that "the
international promotion of human rights is a fundamental and
integral part of Canadian foreign policy." The governiment
regards respect for human rights not only as a fundamental value
but also as a crucial element in the development of stable,
democratic and prosperous societies at peace with each other.
On November 10. 1995. in his opening statement at the
Commonwealth Heads of Govemnment meeting in New Zealand,
the Prime Minister stated:
We owe il to the world. and above aIl to the people who live
iii di tticult situations. Io speak out iii the lace of flagrant

1Scnauoi Anderso ]e~

violations of democratic principles and basic tencts of
justice.

ROUTINE PROCEEDINGS
PRIVATE BILL
EVANGELICAL MISSIONARY CHURCH
(CANADA WEST DISTRICT) BILL-REPORT 0F COMMITTEE

Hon. Gérald-A. Beaudoin, Chairman of the Standing Senate
Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs. presented the
following report:
Thursday. December 7, 1995
The Standing Senate Committee on Legal
Constitutional Affairs has the honour to presenit ils

and

SEVENTEENTH REPORT
Your Committee. to which was referred Bill S-12, An Act
to amalgamate the Alberta corporation known as the
Missionary Church with the Canada corporation known as
the Evangelical Missionary Church, Canada West District.
has. in obedience to the Order of Reference of Thursday,
November 30. 1995, examined the said Bill and now reports
the same with the following amendment:
Page 2, fines 14 and 15: strike out fines 14 and 15 and
substitute the fol lowing:
"Province of Alberta has, by chapter 46 of' the Statutes of
Alberta. 1995. authorized"
Respectfully submitted,
GÉRALD-A. BEAUDOIN
Chairnian

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, when shail this
bill be read the third lime?
On motion of Senator Beaudoin. with leave of' the Senate and
notwithstanding rule 58(1 )(b). bill placed on the Orders of the
Day for third reading later this day.

CORRECTIONS AND CONDITIONAL RELEASE ACT
CRIMINAL CODE
CRIMINAL RECORDS ACT
PRISONS AND REFORMATORIES ACT
BILL, TO AMEND-REPORT 0F COMMITTEE

Hon. Gérald-A. Beaudoin, Chairman of the Standing Senate
Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs. presented the
l'ollowing( report:

December 7, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

2437
2437

SENATE DEBATES

December 7, 1995

Thursday, December 7, 1995
The Standing Senate Committee on Legal and
Constitutional Affairs has the honour to present its
EIGHTEENTH REPORT
Your Committee, to which was referred Bill C-45, An Act
to amend the Corrections and Conditional Release Act, the
Criminal Code, the Criminal Records Act, the Prisons and
Reformatories Act and the Transfer of Offenders Act, has,
in obedience to the Order of Reference of Wednesday,
October 18, 1995, examined the said Bill and now reports
the same without amendment but with one observation.
The Committee is concerned that so many technical
amendments to the French text of the Corrections and
Conditional Release Act included in Bill C-45 should be
necessary to remove discrepancies between the two official
versions of the Act. Because legislation is now drafted in
both official languages, Committee members believe it
should have been possible to achieve greater consistency
between the two at the time of first passage in 1992.
Respectfully submitted,
GÉRALD-A. BEAUDOIN
Chairman

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, when shall this
bill be read the third time?
On motion of Senator Graham, bill placed on the Orders of the
Day for third reading at the next sitting of the Senate.
TOBACCO PRODUCT RESTRICTIONS BILL

That the Standing Senate Committee on Transport and
Communications have power to sit at three o'clock in the
afternoon, Tuesday, December 12, 1995, even though the
Senate may then be sitting, and that rule 95(4) be suspended
in relation thereto.
Motion agreed to.

QUESTION PERIOD
CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENTS
SCHEDULE FOR CONSIDERATION OF LEGISLATION-POSSIBILITY
OF PRE-STUDY-GOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. Lowel Murray: Honourable senators, I want to ask a
question of the Leader of the Government concerning Bill C- 110.
Perhaps the Leader of the Government can enlighten us as to the
legislative schedule and expectations in the other place. When
might we expect this bill to arrive in the Senate?
I doubt very much that this bill, as contentious as it is proving
to be in the country, will get very quick passage here. I have been
thinking about pre-study. Ideally, before the bill arrives here, the
govemment would have amended it in such a way as to correct
the problems and build the support that we all know is necessary
for such an initiative to gain favour in all parts of the country. In
that case, I would hope that there would not be much difficulty
on this side.
To some extent, it is a question of timing. How much time
does the leader think is left in the debate in the other place? If we
were to conduct a pre-study, would there be enough time for us
to try to influence the outcome in the other place? Would the
government be agreeable to such a procedure?

FIRST READING

Hon. Stanley Haidasz presented Bill S-14, to restrict the
manufacture, sale, importation and advertising of tobacco
products.
Bill read first time.
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, when shall this
bill be read the second time?
On motion of Senator Haidasz, bill placed on the Orders of the
Day for second reading at the next sitting of the Senate.
TRANSPORT AND COMMUNICATIONS
COMMITTEE AUTHORIZED TO MEET
DURING SITTING OF THE SENATE

Hon. Donald H. Oliver, with leave of the Senate and
notwithstanding rule 58(1)(a), moved:

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, I understand my honourable friend's
concerns and I agree with him. This is a very important piece of
legislation.
Concerning the timetable for the bill, it received
clause-by-clause review yesterday. The committee will report to
the House of Commons on Monday. Under their procedures, it is
anticipated that debate on the bill will be completed by next
Wednesday.
To deal with the other part of my friend's question, at this
point in time the bill, as I said, is now in report stage. It would be
premature of me to draw any conclusions about how it will come
out of report stage, and certainly before the final vote in the
House of Commons.
I am aware of my friend's concern and the concern of others,
that we have an opportunity to get on with this matter as quickly
as possible, and I hope that will be the case.

Senator Murray: It is not for me to speak on behaîf of aIl my
colleagues on this matter. but 1 think 1 can give the honourable
senator an educated guess as 10 what will happen if that bill
comes out of' report stage as il is presently drafted. The chances
are very strong that we will try 10 amend it here. 1 hope that my
friend, and her friends in the other place will take that mbt
account. We could not possibly complete - and 1 arn looking ai
the leadership here -a bill of' this nature in its preseni form
before Christmas. The triends of my friend in the other place
should not be making long-termn reservations if they want to pass
this bill in January. before a possible prorogation in Februaryihat is. if that is what is in the cards.
Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators. 1 am aware of the
concernis involved here. Indeed, throughout this process, the
governmeni itself bas heard the concernis expressed by Canadians
f'rom ail across the country. My friends opposite have been very
frank in their commenîs. and 1 understand iheir position.
However, again. I cannot speculate ai this point in time. It
would be premature to predict how the bill will proceed in the
nexi phase of' its existence.
[Translation1
ITERACY
IJNK BETWEEN
OECI) INTERNATIONAL SURVEY
ADULT LITERACY AND EMPLOYMIENT-GOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. Jean-Robert Gauthier: Honourable senators. my
question is directed 10 the Leader of the Governmeni in this
bouse. It concerns the international survey on aduit literacy
published yesterday. The report indicates there is a close
connection between aduli literacy and employment. Highly
literate adults are more likely to have better paying jobs. and are
mainly found in growth sectors like business and tinancial
services.
According 10 the survey. liîeracy is no longer exclusively a
malter of masîering three basic skiffs: reading. writing and
arithmetic. The survev revealed that alîhough formaI schooling
was very beneficial. continuing education was also very useful to
update and improve skills. The challenge is to find ways t0
ensure that the adult population gets training and development.
My question is as follows: How will the neasures t0 assist
training provided in the government's new employment
insurance policy that was announced recently help Canadians
improve liîeracy levels on a national scale'?
[En glish]
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senalors. 1 thank -Senator Gauthier f'or his question
and for recognizing the publication of the new report entitled
*'Literacy. Economy and Society" produced by the OECD. AIli
senators have been sent a copy. Canada is very much in the lead

as a resuli of the study by Statistics Canada trom 1989 to 199 1.
which is recognized l'or its excellence in other countries of the
world.
0 (14-4o)

This survey is unique. Neyer before have other countries
joined together in assessing the base of their own capabilities in
order to then be able to draw their policy objectives to focus on
eompetition and the development of their eeonomies in such a
rapidly changing world.
In Canada, as indeed in the United States, the survey showed
that we were positioned differenily trom European countries.
perhaps because they are smaller and their governments and
jurisdictions are less diverse than ours. However, many European
respondents were clustered in the middle range in the survey. In
terms of' Canada and the United States. many respondents were
tound to be at the top of' the proticiency level. according 10 the
survey, but a very disturbing number were assessed 10 be at the
very lower levels.
This is a challenge 10 us. We must realize that the people in
our labour force now will be the same people who will be
working in it 20 years from now. and we must find methods to
address this structurai difficulty. or our country will simply not
progress and be competitive. The resuli will be thai our citizens
will not have the opportunities that we would wish themi to have.
As to the new employment measures. one of the fundamental
aspects of the changes introduced by my colleague Mr. Axworthy
was 10 try to shift the focus to employmeni opportunities and
assistance. The literacy component of those changes can be
found in the part of the new programi which will more directly
help du/iens to individually seek oui the kind of' training which
they need to modify their own diticulties. Presently. people train
for jobs or careers in areas where there are no job possibilities
and the training does not meet the needs of individuals. That part
of the new program is directed specitically ai trying 10 deal with
basic skills and the ability to increase them so ihai workers in our
labour force can be retrained and be more flexible 10 the very
rapid changes in our society.
Another focus encourages unemployed people. through wage
subsidies and earning supplements. to enter and siay in the
workf'orce, even if they have jobs that may not pay as well as
they have been used to.
If one thing came out
notion that if universiiy
literate, and others with
opportunity to continually

of this international study. it was the
graduates. who come out as highly
lesser backgrounds do not have the
use these skills. they will lose them.

That is one of the very troublesome statisties at the core ol that
study. and it is one with which we in Canada must come 10 gnips.
It is not jusi for government. because government cannot do it
alone: it is a problem which must be solved by governmeni and
the partnerships that we have been forging over the lasi
several years.

December 7, 1995

December 7, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

SENATE DEBATES

VISIBILITY OF LITERACY SECRETARIAT-GOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. Jean-Robert Gauthier: The Ottawa Citizen, in an
editorial this day commenting on the OECD Statistics Canada
report, stated that this country does not have a national literacy
policy. Further into the article, it indicates that our National
Literacy Secretariat is orphaned in the Heritage department.
As minister with special responsibility for literacy, can the
Leader of the Government in the Senate reassure Canadians that,
indeed, the federal govemment has formulated policies to deal
with this situation, and that she will bring this important
diagnosis - because that is what it is - to the attention of the
authorities, both federal and provincial, so that we can jointly
find some cohesive and possibly very comprehensive programs
that will resolve this very difficult situation in which we find
ourselves?
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government): I would
be very pleased to do that. This is one of the issues that I think
all of us can truthfully say is a non-partisan issue. It is one on
which people in this chamber have worked together, others in the
House of Commons from different persuasions have worked
together, and people all across this country have worked together.
The country does have a literacy program. My friends in this
house who were in the former administration deserve a great deal
of credit for bringing forward policies in 1988 in response to the
first study on the national level of literacy. That was a private
study conducted by Southam. Canadians were shocked by the
results contained therein.
As a result of that, the National Literacy Secretariat was set
up. It is by no means an orphan, and it certainly is not in the
Heritage department. It is alive and well and an example of
creative leverage in the federal government that all departments
would be well advised to consider. It is small and compact. It bas
a small budget, although I wish it had a bigger one. However,
with a small budget, it levers millions of dollars among
provincial governments, among businesses, and among
community associations ali across this country. It is where it
belongs: at the very heart of the Human Resources Development
department.
This study particularly shows that the objective, throughout
this country and at every level, of creating jobs for Canadians,
not just for tomorrow, but for the future, and jobs Canadians can
do, very much requires the kind of cooperation for which the
National Literacy Secretariat is responsible. It has been given
additional assignments in the last year and a half in terms of the
TAGS program in Atlantic Canada. It has also been given the
responsibility for the Youth Literacy Corps, and it is at the
forefront of research and development of literacy materials.
We cannot, as a federal govemment, deliver services, so we
must work in close cooperation with the provinces and with all of
the agencies and associations across this country, private and
public, who are ready, willing, and able to provide not only

2439

2439

money but technology and. most important, awareness on this
issue. It is difficult for people to understand that there are
significant numbers of Canadians who do not have the kind of
ability that everyone in this house has to read and write and to
solve problems in an everyday way.
This is major challenge for Canada. It was a challenge for the
OECD. I think there has been more publicity on this report than
almost any other report I can think of in the last five or six years,
and part of it once again is the shock value of realizing that, in a
country as progressive and as wealthy as Canada, a great
segment of our society remains unable to fully participate or
contribute to our national life.
FUTURE MEASURES TO BE INSTITUTED-GOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. Erminie J. Cohen: My question is also on literacy. On
December 10, the world observes Human Rights Day. The right
to literacy is a critically important human right.
Honourable senators will recall that last October the Leader of
the Government in the Senate and minister responsible for
literacy was absent for the unveiling of the government's social
security reform paper. Last week, the Minister of Human
Resources unveiled an entirely new employment strategy. There
was no mention of the word "literacy".
Yesterday, the first international adult literacy survey
commissioned by the OECD was released. That study revealed
that 42 per cent of Canadians have weak reading skills, scoring in
the bottom two of five reading levels. What is worse, honourable
senators, is that many Canadians who have trouble reading will
not admit that they have a problem. It is therefore not surprising
that today's Ottawa Citizen editorial was entitled "Literacy
Lacking Leadership."
S14s0)

My question to the Minister with special responsibility for
literacy is: What policies have been, or presently are being,
implemented to lower the unacceptable rate of illiteracy in our
country that she alluded to, and when can we expect some
progress in this matter?
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, I thank Senator Cohen for her question. It
is a difficult one. I do not concur in any way with the Citizen
editorial that there is a lack of leadership on literacy in this
country. One of the difficulties with that issue is that there is no
one level of government or sector in our society that can
singlehandedly lead the charge on this issue. Furthermore, as I
said earlier, the problem is made infinitely more difficult
because, as an example, yesterday as the survey came out, other
countries including the United States were able to have their
minister for education or their secretary of the department of
education speaking on behalf of a cohesive unit. In Canada, we
have 12 ministers of education, and because of our jurisdictional
makeup, we do not have a ministry of education in the federal
government. Therefore, leadership must be shared across

jurisdictional lines, and I will pay tribute again to the efforts at
the federal level to establish a method of doing that with the
National Literacy Program and the establishment of the National
Literacy Secretariat, which does cross those jurisdictional lines.
In a cooperative way. it is also part of the provincial literacy
initiatives and part of the major private sector initiatives in every
part of this country. Therefore it is not a question of a lack of
leadership. In fact, single leadership in this country would not do
the job; it is the partnerships and cooperation that will.
In response to Senator Cohen on the question of where we go
from here, as she knows. we have a great number of programs
that are being worked on cooperatively across the country, and as
the issue evolves, there is a shifting emphasis on some of those
programs. Right now, one of the most critical areas is workplace
literacy. Finally, people are understanding that the place to teach
and train people with limited skills is right there in the place
where they work. The other area where we have seen a very
dramatic emphasis in the last couple of years is family literacy,
because that is where one secs the beginnings of the problems or
the successes in individual lives in this country.
The international survey is an enormous one, and the statistical
data that it has amassed will take some time to analyze. Canada
had one of the largest groups to be surveyed of any of the
countries, and there will be a specific Canada report out in March
which will go through various sectors of our society and give us
a much clearer picture of exactly the right tools to use in that
case.
This Canada report will be the most important piece of
evidence on literacy that we have ever had in this country. After
it is out. there will be a succession of specific papers - on
gender, on immigration, on different aspects of the problem.
Those will comte out over a period of probably almost two years.
We al] know that awareness is difficult to achieve, but the fact
of this survey and the subsequent Canada report will make it
truly impossible for people to ignore the issue of literacy in the
months and years ahead. It will help us build, with partners, a
national strategy relevant to the 21st century.

AGRICULTURE
GRAIN TRANSPORTATION-POSSIBLE SALE OF HOPPER
CARS-GOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. Leonard J. Gustafson: Honourable senators, my
question is in relation to the possible sale of hopper cars. As
senators will know, the old boxcars wore out on the prairies. and
they were replaced with a wonderful product called hopper cars
which were especially built to actually hold grain. I understand
the government is thinking about selling these cars to the
railroads - perhaps the word "giving" would be more relevant
here - at 25 per cent of their value.
My question is: Is this really the intention of the government?
Has the government thought of what would happen if, let us say.
an international investor were to buy up all of the shares of the
railroads, and thus end up owning our hopper cars, as opposed to
the farmers. the agricultural community. or the taxpayers of

[ Senator Fairbail

|

Canada? Is the government giving serious consideration to this
very serious problem?

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):

Honourable senators, I must confess to Senator Gustafson that I
do not know the answer to that question. I will ask my colleagues
the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of Transport if they
can help me out on that one.
Senator Gustafson: I would just like to emphasize the fact
that many of the farmers to whom I have spoken have a deep
concern about the government entering into this type of
agreement with the railroads, at a time when there have been so
many changes - some probably positive, but some not so
positive - in the areas of grain transportation.
Senator Fairbairn: I fully understand the concerns of my
honourable friend. and I will make inquiries. I agree with him
that this has been a very tumultuous year in agriculture, in
transportation and in the grain trade, some of it good, some of it
very difficult. On the one hand, it has left our farmers in some
senses invigorated in their efforts, but on the other, there bas
been a sense of some uncertainty, which all of us understand. I
will pursue those questions and try to get the most precise
answers I can.

NATIONAL FINANCE
REDUCTION IN DEFICIT ANNOUNCED BY
MINISTER-RAMIFICATIONS FOR TRANSFER PAYMENTS TO
PROVINCES-GOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. David Tkachuk: Honourable senators, I have a question
for the Leader of the Government. Yesterday, the Minister of
Finance said that in the fiscal year 1996-97 or 1997-98, the
deficit of the Government of Canada would be reduced from the
present forecast of $23 billion for the following year to
$17 billion. However. he did not really say how that would be
accomplished. Perhaps I could have an indication from the
Leader of the Government on this matter.
Does the government intend to find the extra $7 billion it
needs through the methods it has used over the last two years which is to transfer $7 billion of that problem to the provinces by
way of cuts to social transfer payments, and to raise the
remaining large portion of those cuts by increasing taxes, or will
they cut the costs of government?

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, my honourable colleague Senator Oison
commented during the question that the govemment will seek to
achieve these goals through good management, and he is
absolutely right.
The Minister of Finance yesterday indicated that by the end of
the 1996-97 fiscal year the government would have achieved its
goal of reducing the deficit to 3 per cent of GDP - perhaps even
a little bit better. but cautiously 3 per cent. Further, in the
following year they would take the delicit down to 2 per cent,
with the ultimate goal being the elimination of the deficit
completely. as the minister has stated on a number of occasions.

December 7, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

As far as his methods are concerned, honourable senators, the
Minister of Finance has used a variety of tools to achieve his
goals. He made his statement yesterday, and I am sure he will
hear back from Canadians. However we will not know exactly
how he intends to achieve those continuing goals until the next
budget.
My honourable friend knows that in the past year and a half he
has had assistance through a process called "program review", in
which departments throughout the government have been asked
to look within themselves to see how they can control costs in
terms of better management, duplication and overlap with the
provinces, and this is an ongoing discussion.
The one thing that the minister did say yesterday is that this
government will maintain a balanced approach and be ever
conscious of the human dimension as it proceeds with the very
necessary program of deficit reduction.
Senator Tkachuk: I differ a little bit on the question of good
management, because to date the federal government bas
achieved the majority of its cuts - that is, 75 per cent of the
difference in the deficit from 1994-95 to 1996-97 - by
increasing taxes. That bas resulted in a total of $5 billion over
these three years. They have also cut approximately $4.4 billion
in social transfer payments, so that the provinces must deal with
the problems of health care, social welfare and university
education. The dramatic cut that is being asked of the provinces,
for example in the case of British Columbia, represents
approximately a 30 per cent decrease in the amount of transfers
they received from 1994-95, compared to what they will be
expected to deal with in 1996-97. The federal govemment has
not taken it upon itself to make the same cuts in its operating
expenses as a result of program review but bas let other
governments in Canada deal with them.
Provinces should be able to plan two years from now on the
basis of their transfer payments. Will there be increases in taxes,
or will the federal government reduce operating costs?
Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators, just as my
honourable friend declined to accept my comments about good
management, I find it difficult to agree with him on some of his
assertions. I should also like to remind him that through social
transfers the federal govemment continues to move billions and
billions of dollars into the provincial sphere.
Ultimately, Senator Tkachuk, we will have to wait for the
Minister of Finance to pull together the advice that he is
receiving and bring it forward in his budget early in the New
Year.
GOODS AND SERVICES TAX
FORECAST FOR ELIMINATION OR REPLACEMENTGOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. Jean-Maurice Simard: Honourable senators. I should
like to ask two short questions. If I get two short. complete

2441

answers, then I will be happy. I will appreciate it, and I am sure
honourable senators will appreciate not only the questions, but
also the answers.
Returning to the earlier comments about yesterday's economic
and fiscal update by the Minister of Finance, even the Leader of
the Govemment got carried away. We all know that this fiscal
update did not go as far as promising that there would be no
deficit in the current account years from now. Some people with
whom I spoke this morning said that even the Minister of
Finance got carried away by trying to predict what might happen
in 1997-98. However, the Minister of Finance cannot even
indicate what his follow-up would be to the statement this past
summer when, again, in trying to make good and lead Canadians
to believe and conclude that for once a Liberal Party promise
would be fulfilled, the Prime Minister indicated that he would
eliminate the GST.
Yesterday's fiscal update did not even mention the treatment
that might be given in next year's budget to the GST, the
elimination of the GST, or replacement of it by some other
formula.
Can we read something into this omission yesterday?
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, not at all.
Senator Simard has referred to the government and its
promises, and seemed to imply that it never keeps them.
However, I should like to remind him, from a discussion we had
earlier today, about a couple of the promises that it bas kept. We
are restoring the funding of the National Literacy Program,
ensuring that the Govemment of Canada will contribute to the
international study and that Statistics Canada will continue to
lead internationally in this issue. Therefore, we do keep
promises.
On the question of deficit forecasting, as my honourable friend
should know, this country has a fiscal history which is littered
with missed deficit targets. One of the rather refreshing trends of
the last two years is that this government has met its targets. It is
on track to continue to meet its targets and, indeed, is broadening
its targets with a view to eliminating the deficit, at the same time
moving ahead on the central issue of creating jobs for Canadians.
Concerning the GST, the honourable senator will know what I
have said on many occasions in the house; namely, that this is a
very important commitment of the government. It is being
pursued at the federal-provincial level. I told my honourable
friend of the reports from the Minister of Finance on encouraging
progress in the federal-provincial discussions. We will come to a
conclusion on this issue which will be not only good for all
Canadians but fairer for all Canadians. My honourable friend will
have to be a little more patient as the Minister of Finance and his
colleagues in the provinces move together towards a solution on
this issue.

REMOVAL OF TAX ON READING MATERIALSGOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. Jean-Maurice Simard: Honourable senators, speaking
of literacy and encouragements, the Leader of the Govemment in
the Senate, approximately three or four years ago when the GST
was being debated and fought against by the then opposition,
made a commitment that she, her party, and a Liberal
govemment - and Senator Hébert also gave his commitment would do ahl they could, almost the day after coming to power, to
exempt books from the GST. That would certainly do a lot, not
only for the literacy sector but also for ail Canadians.

Where is the promise? Must we continue to exercise patience
and wait another two years? We ail know that two years have
passed since your government was elected. Can we hope that the
government might keep its second promise?

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, I will repeat what I have said before: I am
quite aware of comments that were made during the GST debate.
I have repeated on a number of occasions that I will do
everything in my power to have the GST discontinued on books.
My honourable friend must understand that, in the process
which is now underway, the federal govemment is taking great
care to develop a satisfactory and fair solution on the question of
this tax, which bas been an enormous burden on individuals in
this country. It is not operating in a piecemeal fashion; it is
dealing with it as a whole entity. Honourable senators can be
assured that, as it progresses, I will continue to do as I already
have. I have made it clear to the Minister of Finance that my zeai
for the notion of taxation on books has not changed.
[Translation]

NATIONAL UNITY
CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENTS-REQUEST FOR TABLING OF
DOCUMENTS PREPARED BY NEW BRUNSWICK OFFICIALS

Hon. Jean-Maurice Simard: I have a second question, to do
with the excellent program Le Point. Therein was a report
concerning a document, prepared by the Premier of
New Brunswick, and the Red Book, of which Mr. Donald Savoie
is one of the co-authors. Mr. Savoie was also a member of the
transition team following the election of the Liberal govemment
in 1993.
The program, as I understood it, must have left some
Quebecers and Canadians a bit up in the air. I would ask the
Leader of the Government to table this document in the bouse.
The document is important because of the three elements that
Prime Minister Jean Chrétien and his government intend to

debate at this point: the distinct society, the veto and the
decentralization of federal powers.
What surprised me considerably and concerns me especially in
the context of the current debate, is that Professor Savoie and
Premier McKenna had identified significant points and changes
in policy and made very valuable suggestions that could satisfy
Quebec and the other provinces.
The program revealed that Premier McKenna even went to
Ottawa in the days prior to October 30 and was told by the
Liberal government and the Prime Minister not to release the
document. At the time of the referendum, the federalists,
including Mr. Jean Chrétien, did not see any problem.
I think Canadians should know the entire content of the
document. They do not want an incomplete or unofficial version.
It would seem that part of this document has been tabled. Part of
it was made public during the summer. I am interested in seeing
the officiai version so that the work done by Premier McKenna
and Mr. Savoie may be appreciated.
I would like to make a comparison with the present position of
the Liberal govemment on the three questions that I raised. and
that make up the program we are to steam through, that is, the
regional veto, the distinct society and ail that. I think it would be
interesting.

[English]
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators. first, I did not sec the Le Point program.
Therefore, I can only listen with interest to my honourable friend
and, perhaps, inform myself from others as to its content.
As far as Professor Savoie is concerned, I am somewhat
confused. There were co-authors of the policy book that the
Liberal Party used during the 1993 election campaign, and which
it still uses. They were the current Minister of Finance, the
Honourable Paul Martin. and Chaviva Hosek. I am not aware of
Professor Savoie's contribution to a transition team.
However, my friend has been asking aul week about
documents. I am looking into that, as he knows, to sec what
might be there and what is appropriate to do with them.
As interesting as I am sure they would be, Mr. McKenna may
have a great number of his own documents that are not
possessions of the Government of Canada. I am aware of what
my honourable friend said yesterday about his inability to get at
these documents. However, it may be that Mr. McKenna himself
is the person who has the authority to decide which documents
he chooses to make public or not.
The honourable senator can be assured that I wili do my best.
Beyond that, there may be otier channels that be may wish to
pursue.

December 7, 1995

2443
2443

SENATE DEBATES

SENATE DEBATES

December 7, 1995

LITERACY
OECD INTERNATIONAL SURVEY-POSSIBILITY OF
FEDERAL-PROVINCIAL CONFERENCE-GOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. Stanley Haidasz: Honourable senators, in view of the
comments made by the Leader of the Government in the Senate
in her capacity as minister responsible for literacy in Canada, I
want to thank her for the information she bas given us and for the
comments made by Senators Cohen and Gauthier this afternoon.
In view of the fact that there are some shocking problems with
regard to illiteracy in Canada, would the minister give
consideration to the feasibility of either a federal-provincial
meeting on literacy or a national conference of experts on the
matter?
0 (152)

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, that is a very interesting suggestion. In
order to have the aspects of this report clearly looked at and
communicated publicly, it may well be that some type of
conference could be held in the future.
Another aspect of this issue that is of growing interest and
deserves to be looked at publicly is the area of technology and
how it is changing the face of how we deal with literacy and
training, and how we help people in regions of this country far
removed from metropolitan centres. Al of these issues might
well make for a fruitful conference.
[Translation]

respect and interest. However, I think the Minister of Finance has
a much better idea of the priorities with which the government of
this country should work in trying to balance not only the cutting
exercise in the reduction of the deficit but also the notions of the
protection of security for our citizens and what is needed to
create jobs and employment for Canadians.
The IMF has every right to make its views known, but we
must recognize that it bas also applauded this country for its
efforts in the last two years. The trend of deficit reduction in
Canada bas been clearly set out, and, most important, our goals
have been met. They will continue to be met. They will be met in
a way that, I would suggest, only a national government with the
best interests of its country at heart is qualified to judge.
Honourable senators, this is not a paper exercise in Canada; it
is an exercise that keeps in mind the lives of individuals.
Therefore, the IMF, in suggesting that we should swiftly reach a
balanced budget and eliminate our deficit, may not have the same
priorities as the Minister of Finance. He will carry out the
exercise leading up to his next budget based on those
considerations as well.
[Translation]

OECD INTERNATIONAL SURVEY
ON ADULT LITERACY
NOTICE OF INQUIRY

Leave having been granted to return to notices of inquiry.
NATIONAL FINANCE

INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND-OBJECTIVES AND METHODS
OF DEFICIT REDUCTION-GOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. Pierre Claude Nolin: Honourable senators, my
supplementary follows from the response the Leader of the
Government gave to Senator Tkachuk regarding the increased
rate of deficit reduction compared with the GDP.
You are no doubt aware that the International Monetary Fund
suggested earlier this week to the government that it set as an
objective a 1.4 per cent ratio between the deficit and the GDP. I
am well aware that the Minister of Finance set 2 per cent as the
new target in his speech yesterday.

Hon. Jean-Robert Gauthier: Honourable senators, I give
notice that on Tuesday next, December 12, 1995, I will call the
attention of the Senate to the report on the international survey
on literacy and Employment Guide.
[English]

THE SENATE
CRITICISM BY MEMBERS OF THE MEDIA-CORRECTION

[English]

Hon. Marcel Prud'homme: Honourable senators, with your
permission, I wish to correct what I said earlier. The article I
quoted had just been published. I will definitely be in for a bad
weekend if I do not mention the grateful exercise in municipal
affairs of our good friend Senator Lucier. My father was involved
as well in municipal politics in Montreal. Senator
Lynch-Staunton was elected many times. On top of that, Senator
Balfour sat with me in the House of Commons three times, as did
Senator Phillips.

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, the IMF bas suggested cuts that Canada
might engage in to accelerate the reduction of its deficit. Of
course, the views of that organization are always received with

I made a mistake. Senator Murray was never elected. He was a
minister, but not elected. Finlay MacDonald also had something
to do with the political process. At any rate, I wanted to bring
these corrections to your attention.

Following this recommendation by the IMF, does your
government foresee ways of further accelerating deficit
reduction?

Hon. Finlay MacDonald: Honourable senators, I thank
Senator Prud'homme for including my name in that illustrious
company. I must remind the Senate, however, that I am one of
those who lends credence to the accusation of Mr. McWhinney in
the other place, because in 1963 I was a candidate for federal
office in Halifax, Nova Scotia. It was reported after the results
came in that I had shaken the hands of 40 per cent of the
electorate and the confidence of the remainder.
Some Hon. Senators: Oh! Oh!
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, I was not aware
that under Routine Proceedings we had an item entitled
"Confessions." However, the Senate being the friendly body that
it is, I suppose such a comment is in order.
BUSINESS OF THE SENATE
Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourable senators, before we proceed to
Orders of the Day, I should indicate that we wish to call, in order,
motion Nos. 1 and 2. The next item would be Bill C-103 under
"Presentation of Reports from Standing or Special Committees."
We will then go directly to item no. 3 on the Order Paper, which
is Senator Fairbairn's statement on the resolution. We will then
proceed according to the Order Paper for the remainder of the
day.
Senator Kinsella: Could we have an explanation as to why?
Senator Graham: This procedure falls within the rules
introduced and adopted by the house under the previous
administration. It is not necessary to give an explanation because
all of the precedents were established by Senator Lynch-Staunton
when he was in this particular position. On a daily basis. he
moved the orders around. Since this administration has been in
place, we have only done this on one occasion.
Senator Fairbairn bas asked that she address the resolution at
that particular time. At that time, it may very well be revealed
why she has made that request.

ORDERS OF THE DAY
ELECTORAL BOUNDARIES
READJUSTMENT BILL, 1995
MOTION TO INSTRUCT COMMITEE TO TABLE FINAL
REPORT-DEBATE CONTINUED

On the Order:
Resuming the debate on the motion of the Honourable
Senator Graham. seconded by the Honourable Senator
Robichaud. P.C.,
That it be an instruction of this House to the Standing
Senate Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs that
no later than Wednesday. December 13. 1995, il present its

final report to the Senate on the Message from the House of
Commons dated June 20, 1995, and on the motion of the
Honourable Senator Graham dated June 28, 1995, regarding
Bill C-69, An Act to provide for the establishment of
electoral boundaries commissions and the readjustment of
electoral boundaries.
Hon. John Lynch-Staunton (Leader of the Opposition):
Honourable senators, my comments will deal with both motions
before us, No. 1 and No. 2, since the principles behind them are
about the same. Despite the Speaker's ruling yesterday. I still feel
that we are into "déjà vu all over again."
I will not go into details on our objections to Bill C-22 and
Bill C-69, but I should like to remind honourable senators of the
following: In our view, Bill C-69 simply is not in the public
interest.
In fact, Bill C-69 is not even a govemment bill. although it
was sponsored by Minister Gray. It is a bill prepared by
back-benchers, the only bill that bas come before us that was not
prepared by the government. It was prepared and drafted by
those who have the most vested interest in electoral boundaries.

Our objection is simple: The present process has effectively
come to an end, because the maps with the recommendations
from the house have now gone to the electoral commissions.
Once those are confirmed, an election held after January, 1997
will be based on the redistribution founded on the census of
1991. If Bill C-69 came into effect today, an election on the basis
of the 1991 census could not be held before January, 1998. That
12-month lag is crucial, because history tells us that most
elections are held within four years, or so, of the previous one.
We are merely arguing to ensure that the Senate of Canada and
the House of Commons respect the constitutional obligation that
redistribution following the most available census figures be
started and completed as expeditiously as possible. Bill C-69 is
an attempt to cancel a process which is nearly completed.
All redistributions cause grief to sitting members. It is
However, that is a minor
unfortunate, but inevitable.
consideration when compared to the need to equalize, as much as
possible, the vote of each and every Canadian. That is an
impossible task to complete, particuarly because of restrictions
imposed by our Constitution, but at least redistribution every
10 years allows that effort to be made.
We are told that the Senate should stay out of this, that the
Senate is not elected, and that this process should be the preserve
of the elected members. Weil, it so happens there are also about
30 million Canadians who are not elected. To say that
redistribution should be left only to those who are its direct
beneficiaries reveals a most strange understanding of what the
parliamentary system is all about, to say the least.
Bill C-69, with just a few changes, including having it come
into effect only after the current redistribution process has been
completed. would meet with our approval - with a few changes.
including, in particular. that it not interrupt the current
redistribution. That is what we are asking the government to do.

December 7, 1995
December 7. 1995

SENATE DEBATES
SENATE DEBATES

2445
2445

As for Bill C-22, it is clearly unconstitutional. The
overwhelming evidence shows, with few exceptions. that it is
unconstitutional because it denies the rule of law. Even the

and we could have easily defeated it. but we said, no, we will not
take advantage of our numerical superiority. That is not our role.
Our role is to act as an opposition, not as an obstruction.

government bas accepted this argument, however reluctantly, by
proposing two sets of amendments, in an attempt to satisfy the
objections of those who say, including the Canadian Bar
Association unanimously, that the bill violates the Constitution.
The government has introduced two sets of amendments which
go some way, but not all the way, to meet objections which have
been so eloquently and so convincingly presented.

Liberals obviously have difficulty in differentiating between
opposition and obstruction. When they were sitting on this side,
particularly from 1988 onward, they engaged in the systematic
obstruction of every major piece of legislation brought forward
by the Conservative government. Let me give you three
examples:

Even Minister Rock bas said that this bill is unprecedented.
This is an unprecedented bill. There is no legislation in the
history of the Parliament of Canada which denies access to the
courts as this one would if passed. We do not want to be party to
a precedent of this sort.
In his remarks of yesterday, Senator Stanbury complained that
we were not allowing the Senate to decide on bills, that seven
senators were obstructing the right of the Senate to take certain
decisions. Let me put our position into perspective. Since
becoming the opposition, we have received nearly
100 govemment bills in the last two years or so. Of those, we
have delayed a decision on only two: Bill C-22 and Bill C-69.
We were accused of delaying Bill C-68. However, when you
look back on the circumstances, it is thanks to a decision and a
recommendation by this side that a vote was taken on Bill C-68
on November 22 that would allow the House of Commons, in the
event that our amendments were passed. all the time available to
consider the amendments and decide whether or not to send the
bill back to the Senate before the Christmas recess. Those who
say we delayed Bill C-68, looking back on it, will realize that we
co-operated with the govemment's agenda.
Senator Stanbury suggested a lack of will on our part; a lack of
courage, even, to bring these bills to a vote here. Let me tell him
and his colleagues that it is not a lack of courage that prompts us
to keep these two bills in committee; rather, it is a mark of
courtesy and respect for the elected house.
We could have voted against these bills when they first came
before us. There was a strong feeling in our caucus that these
bills were so reprehensible or so distasteful that our immediate
instinct - certainly that of many of us - was to vote against
them. Despite that, we decided that we had too much respect for
the will of the elected house, no matter how we might disagree
with it, or feel that it is not fair or right, though legally proper, to
spontaneously and instinctively vote against it. Rather, our role is
to bring to the attention of the other place the flaws in the
legislation and to urge consideration of them, and improvements
that can correct the flaws. That is why the two bills are stili in
committee - to give the government a chance to improve upon
them, and not risk losing them before improvements can be
made.
It would have been so easy to dispose of Bill C-22 when it first
came before the Senate, when our numbers were even greater

In 1988, the Liberals refused to pass the legislation ratifying
the Canada-United States Free Trade Agreement, which forced
an election. The patent bill, which allowed pharmaceutical
companies a longer period of patent protection, was sent back to
the house three times - deliberate obstruction. As Senator
Simard mentioned in his question, we had the GST debate, about
which the less said the better.
The tragedy of those three amongst many interventions is that
now that the Liberals are in power, they have done nothing about
those matters. They have embraced free trade, in some cases
even more strongly than the Conservatives who supported it at
the time. There has been no amendment tabled to shorten the
patent protection allowed pharmaceutical companies, which was
the subject of a major debate here. It has been two years now,
and we are still waiting. As Senator Simard pointed out, we have
not even had an amendment to the GST to exempt periodicals
and books; an amendment which the Leader of the Govemment
so passionately supported at the time.
The tragedy is that the Liberals did not oppose so much as they
obstructed; and the irony of the situation is that, once in power,
they have embraced the policies which they so damagingly
obstructed.
I suppose that should not be too surprising from members of a
party which, not long ago, denounced distinct society and today
embraces it as though it were their own discovery.
One of the reasons bills are not moving as fast as the
govemment would like is that the Senate has refused to engage in
pre-study. Senator Murray asked, but did not get a direct answer,
about Bill C-110, the veto bill. We hear that it may only come to
us on Wednesday or Thursday of next week, without amendment.
The Senate bas a major responsibility to at least listen, if not
respond, to the concerns of regions. Does the government really
expect that when Bill C- 110 comes here on Wednesday or
Thursday we will pass it automatically just because we want to
get home for Christmas? To do so would be a complete
abdication of our responsibilities.
We did suggest pre-study to the government leadership. This is
not a partisan issue. Federal-provincial relations and harmony
between the various jurisdictions in this country is not a Liberal,
Conservative, NDP, Reform or Bloc issue. It is a question of
keeping this country together. Thus far, we have received no
answer.

It would be easy for the governmcnt to engage senators on
both sides in the legislative process, particularly with regard to
bills of a largely non-partisan and technical nature. There is
talent on both sides which cries out 10 be used. Unfortunately. the
government neglects some of' the greatcst talent available in this
house.

For these reasons, 1 urge that the two motions be voted down.

The government bas a choice which I offer on behaîlf of my
colleagues. It is the following: Bring the necessary amendments
to the two bills which are in committcc. or risk losing the buis
entirely. It is as simple as that. If the govcrnment wants to pass
the buis down without amendmcnt, it will risk losing them. If we
have held thcm back in committee. it is only 10 give the
government an opportunity to improve on them. If our role is to
be, as both Senator Carstairs and Senator Stanbury are
suggesting, to move evcrything along for a vote rather than
holding it back for improvement. the government faces the
possibility of defeat on bills which deserve to be defeated in their
presenit form.

MOTIONS RESPECTING BILLS C-69 AND C-22-VOTES DEFERRED

If Bill C-69 were defeated, the Senate would be applaudcd,
because Bill C-69 only serves the interests of a small group of
dissatisfied members of the Liberal caucus who, once having
been elected in the ridings they now hold. refuse to accept the
principle bchind redistribution. As one member said, "I worked
ycars tor this. Now that I've got it, don't take il away from mc.It is a sense of proprietorship that should not be accepted.
I fail to understand why the govemment buckles in to these
malcontents rather than accepting the principle that, while
redistribution will hurt sitting members. the purpose will be
served:, that is. t0 give each Canadian a vote which is as equal as
possible to that of other Canadians.
As far as we are concemned. a vote against these two motions
will be a vote of respect l'or the House of' Commons. By voting
against them we will be telling the government that we are
keeping these bills here while waiting for the governmcnt to
improve them. We are asking the government to meet us part
way. Wc are not bcing adamant or pig-hcaded, but we are saying.
as have Patrick Monahan, the Canadian Bar Association and
other observers across Canada. that Bill C-22 is unconstitutional.
Wc are not saying that the government cannot cancel the
contracts, although wc question the propricty of doing that. We
are saying that the govemnment should allow those affected by the
cancellation their day in court. Wc arc not pleading for thcm. Wc
will not go to court with them. We arc indifferent as to whether
they win or ]ose, but wc say that they have the right 10 go to
court.
Jn the case of Bill C-69, we are sîmply saying that the process
has come to an end. We have already spent $5 million to
$6 million. The maps wihh be depositcd and confirmed in early
January. They will be prochaimed then and confirmcd a year haler
as the basis for the next ehection. Why. for the sake of a few
malcontents. tear aIl that apart and restari the systemn under new
rules with additionah expense, and. most important. ahhow the
next election not to he held on the basis of the 1991 census?

[Senati

L\ nch-Siainton 1

On motion of Senator Hébert, debate adjourned.

BUSINESS 0F THE SENATE

Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourable senators, following discussions on
both sidesan agreemient has been reached with the opposition
party with respect to how we will proceed on the two motions
standing in my name on the Order Paper respecting Bill C-22 and
Bill C-69.
Accordingly, pursuant to rule 39, 1 move:
That at 5:30 p.m. on Tuesday, December 12, 1995 any
proceedings before the Senate shahl be interrupted and ail
questions necessary to dispose of the motions by the
Honourable Senator Graham of December 6, 1995, to
instruct the Standing Senate Committee on Legal and
Constitutional Affairs to present their final report to the
Senate on the message and motion rcgarding Bihl C-22 and
the message and the motion regarding Bill C-69, shail be
put forthwith without further debate or amendment and that
any votes on any of those questions not be further deferred.
Motion agreed

10.

EXCISE TAX ACT
INCOME TAX ACT
BILL TO AMEND-REPORT OF COMMITVEEDEBATE AD)JOURNED

The Senate proceeded 10 consideration of the twenty-sixth
report of the Standing Senate Committee on Banking. Trade and
Commerce. (Bill C-103, to amend the Excise Tax Act and the
Income Tax Act. with an amendment), presented in the Senate on
December 5. 1995.

Hon. Michael Kirby: Honourable senators, 1 risc to speak on
the report of the Standing Senate Committee on Banking. Trade
and Commerce on Bill C-103.
On November 30 and again on December 5 of this year.
pursuant to an order of reference adopted by thie Senate on
November 7, the Standing Senate Committee on Banking. Trade
and Commerce met to study Bil1I C- 103. The bi 1 secks to amend
the Excise Tax Act by imposing an 80-per-cent tax on the value
of advertising in the Canadian split-run edition of periodicals.
The bill would make the tax payable, in the words of the bill. by
a responsible person.- Such a "person- is defined in the bill as
being a publisher. distributor, printer (jr wholesaler.

December 7, 1995

December 7, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

SENATE DEBATES

The bill also amends the Income Tax Act by adding an
anti-avoidance rule to section 19 of the act. This section provides
rules for the deductibility of expenses for advertising in
newspapers and periodicals.
That, honourable senators, is what the bill does. In layman's
language, the bill effectively makes the cost of producing or
selling any future split runs of magazines in Canada prohibitively
expensive.
The report of the committee, however, contains an
amendment. What the amendment does is to change the date that
this legislation becomes effective from the date proposed in the
bill March 26, 1993, some 33 months ago, to the date that this
bill receives Royal Assent. I will comment in a minute on why
the committee has recommended that amendment.
I should add, almost parenthetically, that the committee also
seriously considered several other amendments, specifically two
amendments recommended by the Canadian Bar Association.
The reason we did not make further amendments was that
Minister Dupuy, when testifying before the committee on
Tuesday morning, gave us his guarantee - and we on the
committee assumed his guarantee meant the government's
guarantee - that amendments to deal with the concerns of the
bar association would be introduced by the govemment in the
next omnibus tax bill. A bill of that type normally comes before
the Senate and then the committee in the spring of every year.
Given that undertaking from the Minister of Canadian Heritage,
we decided to set aside the issue of whether we would make the
amendments recommended by the Canadian Bar Association. We
proceeded to consider the issue of whether the bill ought to go
into effect on March 26, 1993, as recommended by the
government, or whether it ought to go into effect at the time of
Royal Assent.
There are two reasons why the committee voted to make the
effective date the date of Royal Assent. I will only comment on
one today. I will leave it to other members of the committee Senator Kelleher, Senator Oliver and others - to comment on
the second reason, namely, the substantial concern that the
committee had about U.S. trade retaliation. This concern arose
because of the way the bill is, first, retroactive, and, second,
because it singles out a specific magazine, Sports Illustrated.
This bill bas been interpreted by its critics as a punitive measure
targeted at a single publication. Let me leave that trade issue
aside, however, and talk about the other reason for changing the
date on which the bill becomes effective.
The Standing Senate Committee on Banking, Trade and
Commerce has had a long-standing concern with retroactive
legislation. Many times in the past, during the 10 years I have
been on this committee, members on both sides of the aisle have
given speeches expressing their profound concern and opposition
to legislation which is effectively retroactive, because it makes
past business decisions ultra vires; legislation that essentially
nullifies the effect of business decisions, that, in fact, at the time
they were taken, were perfectly legal.

2447
2447

Bill C-103 is intended to prevent future split runs of new
magazines. It is intended to prevent new periodicals from coming
out with split runs. This is a legitimate goal. The amendment
contained in our report absolutely preserves that goal. Our
amendment continues to preserve the fundamental thrust of the
policy contained in the act, which is that Canada ought to have a
policy stopping future split runs.
The issue before the committee was whether we ought to go
back 33 months and prohibit Sports Illustrated from doing split
runs as well. Our view was that going back in history for
33 months, during which time only one publication bas started a
split run, namely Sports Illustrated, was a form of retroactivity.
The evidence before the committee was not at all conclusive that
Sports Illustrated had even been told that what they were doing
was against any govemment policy. In fact, the evidence, in my
view, leans the other way.
In 1990, for example, Time Canada, which is the parent
company of Sports Illustrated, sought and obtained a letter from
Investment Canada confirming that Sports Illustrated would not
be subject to the Investment Canada Act. That is an important
consideration because one way of stopping split runs is by using
the conditions of the Investment Canada Act. Sports Illustrated
Canada in fact has an exemption from that act by a decision of
Investment Canada in 1990.
Two years later, in December 1992, Time Warner of Canada
advised the government that they would begin publication of
Sports Illustrated in Canada in 1993. Witnesses from Sports

Illustratedand from Time Canada testified before the committee
last Thursday that at no time did they receive notice that their
plans were in contravention of Canadian law. There is
correspondence between Time Canada and Revenue Canada
through that first six-month period in 1993. However, the
correspondence deals with Tariff Code 9958. It indicates clearly,
in the terms of a letter from the Deputy Minister of Customs and
Excise, that the split-run editions being printed in Canada were
not in breach of this provision. Tariff Code 9958 is the element of
Canada's Tariff Code which stops split runs from being
physically brought over our border. The Department of Customs
and Excise came to conclude that the split-run edition of Sports
Illustrated did not violate Tariff Code 9958.
Honourable senators, it is true - and this is where the
evidence is somewhat conflicting - that during this period early
in 1993, Perrin Beatty, the then Minister of Communications,
gave an interview to the press in which he indicated that he was
not in favour of the Sports Illustrated split-run edition.
Subsequently, after Sports Illustratedhad published two split-run
editions, Mr. Beatty indicated that a policy would be introduced
which would effectively prohibit Sports Illustrated from
proceeding with future split-run editions.
Honourable senators, these facts raised in the minds of
committee members two issues: First, is it reasonable to expect
businessmen in this country to take business decisions on the
basis of statements made by a minister which they read in the
media? Surely, if you have a particular view, you ought to

communicate it directly to the company involved. Second. and
perhaps more important, even if one were to accept the premise
that the minister had made a statement and that it was clear, there
is no getting around the fact that what this bill proposes to do is
to go back 33 months in history. It attempts to go back three
years and implement a policy which was only announced via a
media statement some three years ago.
The Charter of Rights has been used in the criminal courts to
have charges that have stood for too long dropped. The courts
have ruled that if you do not proceed to deal with a charge within
a reasonable period of time, then you cannot proceed with the
charge. You are required to drop it.
Surely, honourable senators, the business community of
Canada is entitled to an obligation that says, if the govemment
announces its intention to implement a policy, and if the
announcement is to become the effective date of implementation,
there must be some reasonable period of time in which that
policy is implemented and put into legislation. Even this scenario
stretches credulity. The fact is, in our view, if you can go back
three years, in an extreme case you could go back 10 years. You
could go a long way using retroactive legislation. The principle is
a dangerous one.

Finally, honourable senators, I am comfortable with our
decision because of the findings of a task force that looked at this
question. The Task Force on the Magazine Industry published its
report in 1994. The task force was chaired by Mr. Tassé, the
former deputy minister of Justice: and Mr. O'Callaghan, the
former publisher of The Edmonton Sun and other publications.
That report, which was issued in March 1994. did two things. It
called for an excise tax of 80 per cent on the value of advertising
in a split run. It called for precisely the same measure as is
contained in the current bill. The O'Callaghan -Tassé Task Force
also said that Sports Illustrated should be grandfathered. It came
out against retroactive legislation.
Honourable senators, first, this amendment seeks to preserve a
stated policy of govemments on both sides of the house in the
last few years: namely. that future split runs should not be
allowed. Second, it seeks to do what the task force on the
Canadian magazine industry recommended; namely, it seeks to
make this bill non-retroactive. Under the amendment. the
legislation would go into effect the day it is passed.
Third, it seeks to preserve a position which the Banking, Trade
and Commerce Committee has held under a variety of chairmen
during the 10 years I have been on the committee, and regardless
of what party was in power. That stance is that there should be a
principle of business law in Canada which states that retroactive
legislation, particularly legislation that goes back almost three
years, should not be allowed.

[ Senator

Kirby 1

Honourable senators, simply put, these are the things that the
amendment seeks to do.
Let me make two other comments for those who will make the
argument that this bill is a disaster for the Canadian magazine
industry. Factually, that is incorrect. The reality is that the
Canadian magazine industry has competed with Sports
llustrated split runs for two and one-half years. When we asked
whether or not that competition had led to the collapse of any
Canadian magazine publications, we were told categorically
",no."
Remember that this bill prevents Sports Illustrated from
increasing the frequency of the number of split-run editions it
produces. It limits them to 12, which they did in the last year.
Therefore, it clearly does not increase the level of competition
among Canadian magazines, and Canadian magazines have
competed successfully against this particular split-run edition for
two years. Therefore, that argument holds no water.
As to the argument that if we amend the bill and send it back
to the other place, the bill will die on the Order Paper because the
Commons will be unable to deal with it in sufficient time before
prorogation, I do not believe it. If the other place chooses to
adopt our amendment. they can deal with it in a simple motion.
What goes back from here is a motion to accept the bill, as
amended. It can be dealt with in a matter of 60 seconds in the
other place.
Fundamentally. this raises a question that I and other senators
have spoken about in this chamber for a long time. Every time
we get to a major break in the parliamentary calendar, whether it
is December or June, we are repeatedly told that we must do
things to keep people in the other place happy, or to keep the
government in the other place happy. If honourable senators will
check the record of the last year, I have twice said - and I have
stated it categorically in writing to members of my own
committee - that it is time that we stopped having our agenda
driven by the timetable of the other place.
I am sure that some people will advance the timing problem as
an argument. In my view - and this is a position that I have held
for a long time - this argument is not related to this bill. We in
this chamber should take what we believe to be the right
legislative action. If it requires that the other place adjust their
timetable a bit, so be it. I am tired of being pressured to change
my position simply to keep the other place happy.
Honourable senators, this was not a partisan vote.
Conservatives and Liberals voted for the amendment and voted
against it. The tradition with the Banking Committee is that
things seldom, if ever, split along partisan lines. I have outlined
why I support the amendments and why I am with the majority. I
have outlined the views of the majority with the exception of the
trade issue, which some other members on the committee will
address.

December 7, 1995

December 7, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

SENATE DEBATES

I hope I have dealt in advance with the arguments of those
who oppose this amendment. There is no doubt in my mind that
this is not a disaster for the Canadian magazine industry. They
have competed successfully with Sports Illustrated for two and
one-half years. In fact, they are being protected because the
public policy in this bill has been preserved; it stops future split
runs. Finally, honourable senators, we should not be stampeded
into doing something simply because it makes life easier for
people in the other place.
The Banking Committee has done its job, and I recommend
that this report be adopted by the Senate in a speedy fashion.
Hon. Donald H. Oliver: Honourable senators, I commend the
Honourable Senator Kirby on the excellence of his remarks.
First, I should like to point out that the amendment proposed
by the committee in the report which the chairman of the
Banking Committee presented on Tuesday contains a technical
error.
MOTION IN AMENDMENT ADOPTED ON DIVISION

Hon. Donald H. Oliver: I therefore move:

2449
2449

The committee's proposed amendment would give Sports
Illustrated what it was after. That amendment is contrary to the
policy established not only by this government but by the
previous Conservative administration. Consequently, we do not

support the amendment brought forward by the committee and
we cannot support Senator Oliver's motion in amendment, as it
would, in effect, go against our intention.
Having made the points that have to be made traditionally, we

have allowed such technical defects to be corrected. In the spirit

of cooperation and in view of those traditions, we will not oppose

this motion to clarify an egregious drafting error.

I do want to make it perfectly clear that, although we will not
stand in the way of Senator Oliver's motion, we are adamantly

opposed to the report of the committee, and we will be voting
against it.
Honourable senators, perhaps you can direct me on the correct
procedure. I think Senator Davey wants to speak on the report.
The Hon. the Speaker: Are you ready to proceed, Honourable
Senator Berntson?

That the report be not now adopted, but that it be
amended by replacing the line:

Hon. Eric Arthur Berntson (Deputy Leader of the
Opposition): Honourable senators, I think it would be in order to
speak on the report and the amendment simultaneously. I fully
expect that there will be further debate. We are pretty thin on

"on the day this Act is assented to, a particular number

both sides here today, and there may well be other members who
want to speak to the amendment before we dispose of it.

of'

with the line:
"on the day of the coming into force of this section, a
particular number of'.
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, have heard the
motion in amendment moved by the Honourable Senator Oliver
and seconded by the Honourable Senator Kinsella.
Is it your pleasure to adopt the motion in amendment?
Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourable senators, Senator Davey is prepared
to speak on the report of the committee. Before he does, I should
like to indicate and emphasize that the government cannot
support the motion moved by Senator Oliver. We do not support
the amendment that the committee intended to put forward.
Consequently, we cannot support this motion, which is designed
to advance the amendment.

Senator Graham: I want to point out that we are not
supporting Senator Oliver's motion but we are not opposing it.
0(1610)

Senator Kirby: May I clarify the problem? The amendment
drafted by the Law Clerk's office had a technical error in it
because of the way it phrased the starting date. Senator Oliver's
amendment fixes that error.
-

Honourable senators, given that Senator Graham has just said
and this is not meant to be a debate between three Nova

Scotians, which is what is taking place here - that the
government will not oppose Senator Oliver's amendment, it
seems to me appropriate that we adopt the amendment now and
proceed to debate the other issue.

Senator Berntson: Let it go.
The Hon. the Speaker: Is it your pleasure, honourable
senators, to proceed?

Hon. Senators: Agreed.
What the committee proposes in its report is an amendment
that would have give special status to Sports Illustrated
The Hon. the Speaker: Are there any other honourable
magazine. As Senator Davey will undoubtedly explain, Sports senators who wish to speak on the amendment? If not, then I will
Illustrated,though warned by the previous govemment not to do put the amendment to the Senate.
so, took advantage of new technologies to establish a split-run
edition in Canada. It now wishes to be exempt from the
It was moved by the Honourable Senator Oliver, seconded by
provisions of Bill C-103. which would prevent split runs.
the Honourable Senator Kinsella:

That the report be not now adopted, but that it be
amended by replacing the line:
"on the day this Act is assented to, a particular number
of"
with the line
"on the day of the coming into force of this section, a
particular number of'.
Is it your pleasure, honourable senators, to adopt the motion in
amendment?

Some Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Some Hon. Senators: On division.
Motion in amendment adopted, on division.
The Hon. the Speaker: We are back to the report of the
committee, as amended.
Hon. Keith Davey: Honourable senators, 25 years ago this
week, I chaired a committee that conducted a detailed analysis of
the mass media. I should like to quote from a book which came
along a little later. This is quite a remarkable book entitled The
Rainmaker. You can purchase it, if you can find it. I would like to
quote from chapter 8, a section called "The Uncertain Mirror".
The reference was to me.
Out of football, out of advertising, out of politics, what
next. As a constant observer of all media and newspapers in
particular, I had become increasingly concerned over a
number of years about media concentration. More and more
Canadians were getting news and other information from
fewer and fewer people. And as Canadians, most of us
viewed what was happening in the world at large through
the eyes of American reporters.
On March 18, 1969 I expressed those concerns in a
speech I made to the Senate. I proposed a special Senate
committee to determine whether we had the press we
needed in Canada or simply the press we deserved.
I will not go on and talk about the report except to say that at
page 145 you will find a fascinating picture of members of the
committee. In that picture, sitting beside me, is my friend Senator
Petten. Senator Sparrow was also a member and Senator
McElman - who was here yesterday - was one of the key
members.
I have two quotations from The Rainmaker relating to the
discussion we are about to have: First, I said:
There is something about the media that is turning people
off. It bas got something to do with society itself and the
way it is changing and the way people react to it. If the
media turn people off, it is because society at large turns

them off. If newspapers are losing friends, it is part of the
same process by which Parliament is losing friends, and the
courts and the corporations and the schools and the
churches.
Remember, it was some number of years ago that I wrote these
words. I went on to a section called "The Troubled Magazines."
Here is what I said at that particular time:
Magazines are special. Magazines constitute the only
national press we possess in Canada. Magazines add a
journalistic dimension which no other medium can provide
- depth and wholeness and texture, plus the visual impact
of graphic design. Magazines, because of their freedom
from daily deadlines, can aspire to a level of excellence that
is seldom attainable in other media. Magazines in a different
way from any other medium can help foster in Canadians a
sense of themselves.
That was true then; it is true today: Magazines in a different
way from any other medium can help foster in Canadians a sense
of themselves.
Having said that, honourable senators, I shall try to explain my
strongly-held position. These were things that we were talking
about some number of years ago; this is stuff I am talking about
today.
I am taking this opportunity to speak on a very important and
urgent issue, Bill C-103. The Standing Senate Committee on
Banking. Trade and Commerce has accepted in principle
Bill C-103. This is important because the bill reinforces Canada's
magazine policy. Failure to pass the bill now will risk placing our
national magazine policy in a legal enforcement vacuum and
expose Canadian publishers to unfair competition for advertising
revenues.
While the committee accepted all of Bill C-103, it has
proposed one important amendment. I am asking the Senate to
reject this amendment because I believe it to be fundamentally
wrong and to fundamentally contradict the spirit of Bill C-103.
Let me explain, honourable senators. Bill C-103 maintains the
integrity of a long-standing government policy to promote the
Canadian magazine industry. This policy bas had great success,
despite Canada's relatively small market size and our dual
language community, which renders our own market even
smaller.
Canada's magazine policy bas its roots in the 1961 Royal
Commission on Publications which was led by an esteemed
member of this chamber. Senator Gratton O'Leary. The royal
commission recognized that advertising revenues are the key to a
viable Canadian magazine industry. Senator O'Leary's
recommendations in 1961 formed the basis of what is still today
a very successful policy. It uses the provisions of the Income Tax
Act and the Excise Tax Act to protect the advertising base of
genuine Canadian publications.

December 7, 1995

December 7, 1995

SENATE DEBATES
SENATE DEBATES

A loophole that was created in 1993 by a change in technology
now threatens to undermine this policy. Bill C-103 will close this
loophole, thereby ensuring that the policy continues to be
enforced. I am pleased that the committee bas approved our
legislative approach to closing the loophole.
Criticism of Bill C-103 has been levelled by spokespersons
from one of the largest transnational communications empires in
the world, Time Warner. There bas also been widespread support
for the bill from the Canadian Magazine Publishers Association,
from Maclean Hunter, from advertisers and from the broader
culture and arts community. This bill enjoys widespread support
from all political stripes, from members of the previous
government, and, of course, the current government.
Let me explain briefly the background to Bill C-103. In 1993,
Time Wamer believed they had found a way to by-pass Canada's
long-established policy. They decided to make use of a loophole
in the application of the policy and announced the launch of a
split-run edition of Sports Illustrated. In a split-run edition, a
publisher uses articles and other editorial content prepared and
paid for in the magazine's domestic market and inserts
advertising targeted at another market. In the case of Sports
Illustrated Canada, the editorial content of the Canadian
split-run edition is largely the same as the U.S. edition but
contains advertising directed at Canadians. Split-run magazines,
with their recycled articles, siphon off advertising revenue from
legitimate magazines with original content.
The government responded clearly and unequivocally in 1993.
Revenue Canada informed Time Wamer that the spirit and intent
of Canada's legislation must be respected. The Honourable
Perrin Beatty, then the Minister of Communications, stated
publicly that the government was committed to upholding its
magazine policy. A task force was created in March, 1993 to
update enforcement measures and ensure that the policy
established in 1965 could still operate effectively in the face of
new technology.
I must say just a word or two about that time. I spent too much
time badgering the then Leader of the Govemment in the Senate,
Senator Lowell Murray. He greatly influenced much of the
positive activity which resulted, and I have great respect for
Senator Murray because of that particular activity.
Despite the clearly expressed intentions of the government in
1993 and its methodical approach to solving an enforcement
issue, Time Warner decided to begin publishing a split-run
edition of Sports Illustrated. I stress that the company knew the
intentions of the minister in 1993 and knew the intention of
Canada's policy. Other foreign magazine publishers did not
imitate or follow Time Warner. They did not try to exploit a
temporary loophole.
Now, in 1995, the govemment bas proposed the legal means to
close the loophole with Bill C-103. Time Warner, however, is
now looking for special treatment. Before the Senate Committee
on Banking, Trade and Commerce, Time Warner argued that

Sports Illustrated Canada should be grandfathered, and therefore

be given special status under Bill C-103. Time Warner has
misconstrued this legislation in suggesting that it is retroactive,
and unfairly targets Sports Illustrated Canada. The reality is just
the opposite. Only one magazine is seeking special. unique
privileges that are not available to any other foreign split-run
publishers.
0(1620)

Let me explain that, honourable senators. First, the bill is not
retroactive. No company will pay any excise tax for split-run
editions until after the coming into force of this act. There will be
no tax claimed on activities carried out before Bill C-103
becomes law. Time Warner, therefore, will be allowed to keep its
earnings from the Canadian market from the split-run editions of
Sports Illustrated Canada that they have published since 1993.
Bill C-103 simply closes a loophole that now exists in the
application of a policy. Like any other tax legislation, the new
regime should apply equally to all. It will apply from Royal
Assent onward, and will not apply retroactively. The amendment
proposed by the Senate committee would unfortunately grant
special status to Sports Illustrated Canada. A special privilege

would be given to this magazine only so that it can continue to
publish split-run issues in the future that would be exempt from
the tax provisions that apply to everyone else.
Second, let me stress that Bill C-103 does not unfairly target
Sports Illustrated Canada. Time Warner was simply the only

publisher which attempted to circumvent the spirit and intention
of our policy on magazines, so clearly known throughout the
publishing world.
A number of other magazines had the technology to exploit a
technical loophole in 1993. Instead, they chose voluntarily to
respect Canada's policy. Would it be fair to reward Sports
Illustrated Canada with a privileged status continuing into the
future because they used a loophole that everyone else knew
would be temporary? To do so would single out Sports
Illustrated Canada from all the other publishers who respected
our policy. We cannot, in good conscience, grant Sports
Illustrated a privileged status, which is the intention of the
Banking Committee's amendment.
My third and final point - perhaps repetitious - deals with a
very practical issue. If the amendment is adopted, it will force the
legislation to return to the other place. There will be serious
delays because the govemment today, as with the govemment in
1993, will not propose measures that support split-run
publications.
In my opinion, delay caused by this proposed amendment will
send the wrong message to Canada's cultural community: That
the Government of Canada cannot defend its own cultural policy
in the face of a campaign, organized by lobbyists and
representatives of large, transnational corporations, which seeks
to divert the advertising revenues of Canadian publications.

Bill C-103 as proposed by the government is an effective.
balanced and careful response to the problem. The cultural
community and former and present ministers have strongly asked
that Bill C-103 be passed in its original torm.
Therefore 1 must appeal to honourable senators not to support
the amendiment. Senator O'Leary*s magazine policy still makes
sense. It has worked well for 30 years. The amendment proposed
to us would seriously harmn this policy. 1 do not need to remind
honourable senators of the timing problems that would be caused
by the proposed amendment. You are well aware of the pressures
that this Parliament is tacing as we come to the close of the first
session. This bill must be passed without delay if we are to
provide the legal authority to close a loophole that now exists in
the enforcement of magazine policy.
If we adopt this bill with an amendment, its passage will
certainly be delayed because the amendment is so manifestly
unfair. The magazine policy enforcemnent loophole will remain; it
will be exploited. and we in this chamber will not have rendered
good service.
1 urge my colleagues and fellow senators to pass Bill C-103
without amendment.
Hon. Senators: Hear, hear!
On motion of Senator Bemîtson. debate adlourned.
QUEBEC
MOTION FOR RECOGNITION AS DISTINCT SOCIETYDEBATE ADJOURNED

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government), moved:
Whereas the people of Quebec have expressed the desire
for recognition of Quebec's distinct society;
(1) the Senate recognize that Quebec is a distinct society
within Canada;
(2) the Senate recognize that Quebec's distinct society
includes its French-speaking majority. unique culture and
civil Iaw tradition;
(3) the Senate undertake to be guided by this reality; and
(4) the Senate encourage ail components of the legislative
and executive branches of government to take note of this
recognition and be guided in their conduct accordingly.
She said: Honourable senators. the purpose of this motion
today is to enable the Senate of Canada to join with the House of
Commons in moving what we would caîl a parallel resolution to
that being debated in the other place at this time.
believe it is the view of a great many ot the representatives in
this chamber that they would wish to bave an oppoliunity. not
just to discuss or debate or express their viewxs on tis ' ery

[Senator I)axey 1

important issue. but also to be, in the end. part of a parliamentary
declaration on the question of the distinct society.
During the Quebec referendum campaign, as ail] of us know,
the Prime Minister of Canada made three commitments: First. to
recognize that Quebec forms a distinct society within Canada;
second, not to make any constitutional change that affects
Quebec without Quebecers' consent; third. to undertake changes
to bring services and the decision-making process dloser to the
citizens.
The motion that we have before us today. honourable senators,
is only one part of a more comprehensive package by which the
Govemnment of Canada indicates its strong intention te, move this
country forward, to show progress within our tedieration. and te,
fulfil commitments made to ail Canadians. and particularly to
Quebecers.
The governimcnt is delivering on its promises only
approximately one month after the Quebec referendum. During
the last weeks of that referendumn campaign, we ail witnessed
Canadians trom every part of the country expressing their great
attachment to the Province of Quebec. These signs came not only
from, politicians or public figures; they came from the people we
represent. who live and work and raise their familles in the
towns, villages, and cities. and in the vast rural and northern
expanses of this land.
Ail of us. 1 think. were struck by the importance of' this
genuine expression by individuals of attachment to Quebec and
to Canada. Very clearly, Canadians care about their country. They
care about Quebec. They arc part of this country. and the sanie
applies to the people of Quebec.
On October 30, Quebecers voted to stay together with other
Canadians. They also sent a strong message to the rest of the
country, and especially to politicians. that changes are needed.
The referendum vote itself undoubtedly was a cliff-hanger. The
Government of Canada, being a responsible govemment, could
not, should not. and cannot ignore these messages.
* (16301>

The Prime Minister himself committed to change during the
rally in Verdun. Quebec; on national television; at the massive
and moving rally in the heart of Montreal on October 27ý and
again on national television directly following the October 30
vote. This motion on distinct society responds to one of the three
commitments that he made.
When the Senate votes and, 1 hope. supports this motion, it
will formally express its acknowledgement of the reality that
Quebec is a distinct society, which includes the fact that Quebec
has a French-speaking majority. a unique culture and a civil law
tradition.
Recognition ot Quebec as a distinct society is a natural part of
Quebec's and Canada*s evolution. Historically. provincial
differences have dictated the need for different approaches.
remedies and accommodations within our federal system. For
examiple. provincial representation v aries in both the Hoiîse of
New
Commi-ons and the Senate. Three prov inces -Maunitoba.
Bruniis\ý ick and Quebec -must print and publish their laxvs in

December 7, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

French and English. The others are not subject to that
requirement. Constitutional school rights apply in some but not
all provinces. Quebec, Ontario, Saskatchewan. Alberta, Manitoba
and Newfoundland must apply those rights, while New
Brunswick, Nova Scotia, Prince Edward Island and British
Columbia do not. Quebec. as we have said, has a civil law rather
than a common law system. The Canadian federation leaves
room for flexibility. In fact, this has always been one of its
strengths.
Recognizing the distinctiveness of Quebec within Canada does
not take anything away from the rest of the country. Recognition
of Quebec's francophone character does not exclude others. On
the contrary, it contributes to ensuring the continued evolution of
Canada as a unified nation.
Canadians also have a very strong tradition in valuing our
minorities and knowing that it is the value we place on those
minorities which preserves, protects and promotes our
democracy. Nothing in this motion in any way detracts from
these values.
Furthermore, the motion takes away no existing or potential
aboriginal or treaty rights, including the inherent right to
self-government. The govemment has demonstrated a very real
and sincere commitment to ensuring that aboriginal people have
the tools for governing themselves. It has kept the promises it
made to aboriginal people by tabling the inherent rights policy,
and announcing its readiness to negotiate aboriginal jurisdiction
and authority in a broad range of key areas, which it is doing
with repeated success in various parts of Canada. The recognition
of Quebec as a distinct society would have no impact on
aboriginal peoples' exercise of their jurisdiction.
Honourable senators, in terms of this discussion, we are
talking about a very important statement and a commitment that
this house, along with the other House of Parliament, would
make to this province; a commitment without which, I believe,
Canada cannot be whole. It represents a very important guiding
principle for the legislative and executive branches of the federal
govemment as well as for the people of Canada.
At the beginning of my remarks I said that this resolution
represents one part of the government's commitment to change
as outlined following the referendum. I should like to say a few
words on the question of the veto which the government is
prepared to exercise on behalf of the provinces by federal
legislation.
The Government of Canada proposes to place its veto power,
which it exercises through its position in Parliament, at the
disposai of the regions. Such a veto would preclude the federal
government from supporting an amendment to the Constitution
that does not have the support of the regions. Let us be clear that
the current veto, requiring seven out of ten provinces with
50 per cent of the population, remains unchanged. The regional
veto is an overlay aimed at giving an extra protection to the
regions.

2453

By establishing the regional vetoes, the government is
delivering on a promise that no change to the Constitution would
be made without Quebec's consent. The purpose of the regional
veto is to unify, not to divide, and the government has listened
carefully to Canadians from all parts of the country on this issue.
Honourable senators, I apologize for being unable during
Question Period today to be more specific in my answers to
questions by Senator Murray. However, as a result of the
consultation and the listening that has taken place, Minister of
Justice Allan Rock announced a short while ago that the
Government of Canada will propose an amendment to
Bill C-110, currently before the House of Commons, that would
provide a veto for British Columbia.
Hon. Senators: Hear, hear!
Senator Fairbairn: The object of these efforts is to bring
Canadians from every region together, not to make them feel left
out. Throughout the last week, it has become very clear that the
people of British Columbia feel incredibly strongly that their
province has attained full regional value. They, along with the
people who represent them here in the Senate, particularly those
in the government caucus in the other place, have made a very
strong case that with its population, its size, its growth and its
unique Pacific orientation economically, British Columbia
deserves to be designated as a region. The new western region
will be comprised of Alberta, Saskatchewan and Manitoba. and
western regional approval of constitutional amendments would
require two provinces with 50 per cent of the population.
Honourable senators, we will be watching with great interest
as this amendment is put forward in the other place. It is our hope
that it will form part of the legislation that will be sent to us for
discussion next week.
In addition to the motion we have before us today, and
Bill C-110, the government has moved forward on transforming
the unemployment insurance system in a manner which respects
provincial jurisdiction in education and training. The
Government of Canada will withdraw from labour market
training. It will work in partnership with provinces to eliminate
program duplication, and help Canadians find jobs and improve
skills needed to enter or achieve progress in the labour force.
Honourable senators, withdrawal does not mean abandonment.
It is a recognition of the desire expressed by all Canadians for
their governments to become closer to their citizens. The
proposed changes in labour market training will clarify the roles
and responsibilities of the provinces and the Canadian
government.
0(1640)

The three initiatives which the government has proposed
constitute a significant first step. They are a realistic approach to
the fact that the Quebec premier-in-waiting and the Govemment
of Quebec have indicated that they are not willing to undertake
any constitutional discussions.

As I said earlier, honourable senators, there will be a first
ministers conference on the amending formula in April 1997, and
constitutional amendments can be considered at that time. The
proposais of today are seen as a bridge carrying us through until
that moment when we must undertake that review as part of our
constitutional obligations.

puzzled that he is not ready to comment on the speech that was
just made.

Honourable senators, on the eve of the Quebec referendum. we
were al] very concerned that we would lose our country. That
political reality shocked us. It forced us to look within ourselves.
and to come to grips with the deep emotions that we too often
ignore or suppress or feel awkward in expressing. Nevertheless.
we did express them quite openly. They were genuine. What was
at stake was the very existence of Canada.

Hon. Marcel Prud'homme: Honourable senators, my
colleague has been saying ail aftemoon to me that he will have
questions, but he will not ask for an adjoumment. I would very
much like to listen to Senator Olson because I believe in what he
has just said. If you speak three or four days later, the spin
doctors will go before you. I like that expression. It is new to me.

Now that Quebecers have voted no, some other Canadians
may feel that perhaps the issue is not that pressing, that there is
time to consider it in various different ways. I would suggest.
honourable senators. that that is the route of complacency and
benign neglect. Let us not forget that separation, pure and simple,
is the current Quebec government's agenda.
Honourable senators. I am deeply convinced that this country
can live united while showing flexibility in the way in which our
federation functions. This motion is one of the steps taken to
ensure that we will have a stronger and more modem Canada,
one that works better for all of its citizens regardless of where
they live; one which truly offers the climate in which to grow
even stronger, in terms of economic opportunity and social
values of fairness, compassion and generosity.
We have still a long way to go. honourable senators, but as a
beginning, this motion declares our intention to try together to
make this unique experiment flourish. It is a commitment on the
part of the Senate so that the whole Parliament of Canada will
share in this undertaking. I therefore ask ail of my colleagues to
join me in support of this motion.
Hon. Senators: Hear, hear!
Hon. John Lynch-Staunton (Leader of the Opposition): I
move adjoumment of the debate.
Hon. H.A. Olson: Honourable senators, I understand that it is
up to the Leader of the Opposition to make the next speech.
However. if he does not intend to make that speech until next
Tuesday. I wish to advise my honourable colleagues that other
parts of Canada have a great deal of interest in this motion,
especially the amendment that has been made by the Minister of
Justice. If you wish to adjourn the debate now, four or five days
will elapse before we get back to this motion. In that time. as has
been my experience many times with this type of situation, the
wrong spin can be put on what is being donc.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: Please proceed. I will allow
Senator Olson to speak.
Senator Olson: I yield to the Leader of the Opposition to
make the first speech because the Leader of the Govemment has
moved the motion. I have no problem with that. I am merely

[ Senator Fairbairn |

Senator Lynch-Staunton: I am not ready because I have just
heard my colleague's speech. However, if Senator Olson wishes
to speak, I am willing, as are others. to hear what he has to say.

I would not like this to be taken as a precedent. In the British
tradition, if one does something one day, the next day it is a
precedent. I agree that Senator Lynch-Staunton should speak next
because that is the custom. However, if he wants to delay making
his speech, that is fine, too. but it should not create a precedent.
Senator Olson: I agree that it will be a precedent. I was not
asking for any precedent to be set. Senator Lynch-Staunton has
indicated to me that he is not ready to speak at this time. I have
no problem with that.
The Hon. the Speaker pro tempore: Honourable senators,
when I recognized Senator Lynch-Staunton, Senator Nolin rose
at the same time. I understand he wishes to ask a question. I will
recognize Senator Nolin, and then, as I understand it. Senator
Lynch-Staunton will yield to Senator Oison.
[Translation]
Hon. Pierre Claude Nolin: Honourable senators, the
resolution you presented is, without a doubt, central to the
concems of Quebecers. I intend to speak to the resolution next
week.
I do have a few questions. In your comments you referred to a
parliamentary statement consisting of two parallel statements.
Why did the govemment not take the legislative route, which is
the usual approach in Parliament? Why two parallel statements,
even if they are identical?
[English 1
Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators, may I indicate to
Senator Nolin that I believe the resolution or the motion before
the Senate today is quite authentic. It was the choice of the
government initially to move this resolution in the House of
Commons where individual members are elected, and thus reflect
the wishes of the country.
I must be candid with the honourable senator. Perhaps my
choice would have been a joint resolution, which has been used
in the past. However in this case, a different choice was made.
Indeed, I was encouraged, and readily agreed, as I indicated at an
early stage to the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate, to bring
forward our own resolution and pass it in concert with that of the
House of Commons.

December 7, 1995

December 7, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

SENATE DEBATES

[Translation]

Senator Nolin: Honourable senators, paragraph 4 of the
resolution reads as follows:
The Senate encourage all components of the legislative
and executive branches of government to take note of this
recognition and be guided in their conduct accordingly.
If this had been a bill, the judicial branch would have been
obliged to take note of it. Do you not see this as an oversight,
considering the importance of this decision?
[English]

Senator Fairbairn: Certainly not to my knowledge, Senator
Nolin. The guidance I received in putting forward this motion
was to have the resolution in precisely the same form as that
introduced in the other place.

2455

2455

The Parliament of Canada, with its elected representatives in
the House of Commons from every corner of the country, has its
daily obligation and responsibility to reflect the public interest of
the country and the people in the country.
In terms of this bill, the honourable senator used the word
"fettered". It is really more of a loan within this period of time. If
an amendment were to be approached, for whatever reason, then
fundamentally the current amending process which has been in
place since the early 1980s is there. It is fundamental to any
changes.
The federal govemment has said that, in the interim, before
any consideration would be given to reviewing or adjusting that
process, there will be an overlay offered by the federal
govemment. The people in the regions will have an opportunity
to have their views met. They, too, are Canadian public interests,
but they will have the opportunity to have their views met if
there is an abiding concern over anything that might be
envisaged in this kind of amendment.

0 (1650>)

Hon. Noël A. Kinsella: Honourable senators, in her speech,
the Leader of the Government in the Senate made reference to
the veto bill that is now in the legislative process, going beyond
the item of the distinct society resolution that we are debating
here. It has been reflected upon and articulated by some that the
federal Parliament is fettering, as it were, the exercise of its veto.
Effectively, it is the federal veto that is exercised, but it could be
seen to be harnessed, or fettered, or subject to this legislation.
What does that do in terms of the duty of Parliament, from
time to time - as it does with all legislation that we deal with
concerning matters of amending the Constitution of Canada - to
seek out as best it can what constitutes the federal and Canadian
public interest? That is when Parliament exercises its best
judgment as to what constitutes the public interest of Canada.
Will that responsibility that Parliament has, both in ordinary
legislation and in amendment of the Constitution process, be
minimized or lessened so that instead of exercising what would
constitute the Canadian public interest, it will be taking into
consideration what would constitute the public interest of a
region such as these regions - that is, if this is how the
amendment will be brought forward.

Anyone in this chamber would know that if there is a region in
Canada that finds a particular change for its own people so
overwhelmingly offensive, the central government - that is, the
federal government - will have to have very severe thoughts
about ever pursuing it.
This particular proposal simply says to the regions, and the
variations of combinations within them, that "Your view counts
as well, and we want to be influenced by it."
Senator Kinsella: How does the government envisage
determining what constitutes the will of the different regions?
For example, what means will be utilized to determine what
constitutes the will of Atlantic Canada as a region?
Senator Fairbairn: Very early on when this proposition was
first put forward, Senator Murray asked me whether or not that
would be specifically stated in the bill and/or defined in the bill.
It is not.

What are your thoughts on the need for Parliament to be able
to exercise its judgment as to what constitutes the Canadian
public interest, which can be radically different from what would
constitute the public interest of Atlantic Canada; or what would
constitute the public interest of Quebec; or what would constitute
the public interest of Ontario; or what would constitute the public
interest of Western Canada, or the three provinces of the West
and the province of British Columbia?

What the government has said, and what the Prime Minister
and the Minister of Justice have said, is that the regular process
of deciding these kinds of things would be through a legislative
discretion within provinces. The other possibilities are through
the government of a province and through a referendum, for
which some provinces such as my province of Alberta, the
province of British Columbia and others, have laws already on
the books. This took place at the time of negotiations for the
Charlottetown accord. They have a legal obligation within their
own provinces to express themselves on these issues through
referenda. There are a variety of methods whereby this could be
exercised.

Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators, first, this is not a
constitutional amendment; it is a first step, or a bridge, as it has
been described, leading us toward the obligation set forth in the
Constitution to have a review of the amending process in 1997.

Hon. Gérald-A. Beaudoin: Honourable senators, it is true
that this is not a constitutional proposal. I agree entirely in that
regard. It is a proposal under a legislative form. However, the
fact is that since the next federal-provincial conference on the

Constitution must be convened before April 17, 1997 - which is
not that far away: it is a matter of 16 months - does the Leader
of the Government in the Senate not think that what we are doing
now is the first act of a very important conference in 1997? We
are adding, to a formula of amendment that has been there since
1982, a legislative process as they have done in some other
provinces with respect to referenda.
The federal Parliament, on authority, may deal with the
National Assembly or with the people of Quebec by referendum
under this formula. Does the minister not think that we must take
into account that what we are doing now is a very important
preliminary to what will take place in April 1997? Does she not
think that even if there is a very substantial difference between
that and a constitutional amendment. the fact is that. ideally. to
save this country, we should now act in such a way as if we were
very close to revisiting the amending formula?

The argument put forward by my colleague Senator Kinsella is
important because the veto of the federal authority is a
prerogative. To a certain extent, it is up to the federal authority to
bind itself. However, we must take into account that we are
already discussing some feasible amendment to the amending
formula for 1997.
Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators. in response to
Senator Beaudoin, who is far wiser on these issues than am I, this
is a first step along the way of suggestions as to what will be the
formal review in 1997. There may be many more when the time
for the conference arrives, and when the first ministers are
around the table, involving whoever else they wish to involve.
These legislative proposais that are being put forward at this time
will quite probably be part of that discussion. However, they will
not be the only part of that discussion. It will be a very open
discussion with, perhaps, many other variations - perhaps better
variations - placed on the table at that time.
I repeat, this is a bridge. Essentially, it is in response to an
honourable commitment that was made. The Prime Minister. as
he was addressing that commitment, considered that in this
interim period the other parts of Canada also might benefit from
that kind of an assurance during the period of time prior to the
1997 meeting.
Senator Nolin: Honourable senators, the Leader of the
Government in the Senate referred to the speech of Mr. Chrétien
given in Verdun. I want to remind honourable senators as to why
we are discussing the veto now. This is what he said:
[Translation]
To those who believe, as our opponents claim, that
constitutional changes that would affect Quebec could be
made without the consent of the Government of Quebec and
the National Assembly, I say that will not happen. You have
my forma commitment as a Quebecer. as a Canadian and as
the Prime Minister of Canada.

1Senator

Beaudoin 1

[En glish ]
Is it the provinces which will decide how they want to
manifest the fact that they do not consent to a change in the
Constitution? Is it the federal authority which will decide if it
will be by referendum? Or will it be the National Assembly of
Quebec or the Government of Quebec?
This is an important question, because the Prime Minister
stated clearly in Verdun that there would be no change to the
Constitution which would affect Quebec's powers without the
consent of the government or the National Assembly. I now see
some flaws in this proposal.
Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators, when we are in
debate on the bill next week. we can probably get into more of
the details than we can today.
I believe one of the efforts guiding the Prime Minister was to
have flexibility in terms of choice in regard to this particular
proposal. As I say, we can get into that in greater detail next
week.
The Prime Minister has noted in his comments in the House of
Commons as well that he has never said that it is the "preferred
choice." However he bas made the point that, in the case of
constitutional amendments. the position of the legislative
assembly of a province has been very important in those kinds of
decisions.
Senator Olson: I appreciate the position taken by the Leader
of the Opposition with respect to what has just taken place. I do
not know whether I should have known this or not: however, I
did not know that this amendment to the resolution was to be
made today. I am not complaining about that. However, it
surprises me, and perhaps it is a pleasant surprise.
I know, too, that it is expected of me as a senator from Alberta
to raise this matter. These kind of things can have a domino
effect. Indeed, to some extent that has already happened although not so severely in Alberta, if I may say so, as what we
have been told has happened in British Columbia by some
senators from that province. I refer to Quebec receiving a veto
and the rest of us going by way of regions and, indeed, the four
western provinces.
Even before the announcement was made by the government
concerning the amendment, it was my opinion that British
Columbia did. de facto, have a veto on the basis of the Prime
Minister's announcement. I am not trying to belittle that. I am
saying that I am certain that if British Columbia had complained
about an amendment or about the amending formula being
proposed. the Government of Canada would not have lent its
authority to veto an amendment. There is no question in my mind
about that.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: Why have the bill. then?

December 7, 1995

December 7. 1995

SENATE DEBATES

SENATE DEBATES

2457

2457

Senator Oison: Why have the bill? It is very simple, surely
the Leader of the Opposition can understand that the Prime
Minister made a commitment during the referendum debate.

vociferously disagreed to an amendment, it would not be passed,
regardless of Alberta. Indeed, the Parliament of Canada could
lend them its veto.

Let me tell the honourable senator one or two things about that
referendum campaign that went on in Quebec.

I hope honourable senators opposite will make a speech on
this. Surely they have a view. Iam trying to explain a few things
from Alberta's point of view. Quite frankly, I do not think you
understand. Alberta, and indeed the other two Prairie provinces
effectively have a veto.

Senator Lynch-Staunton: I was there.
Senator Oison: I hope I do not hurt somebody's feelings by
saying this -

Senator Lynch-Staunton: I was there while he was out west,
raising funds for the Liberal Party.
Senator Oison: He does that so very well, which is why we
like him to come to our province.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: He did it during the referendum
campaign, before he showed up in the last week of the campaign
in a panic.

It is not terribly worrisome to me, because I do not think it will
ever be tested between now and April of 1997. At that time, there
will be a formal meeting of all 11 governments of the provinces
and the territories to deal with this subject. The Leader of the
Opposition in the Senate knows that.
An Hon. Senator: Why have it?

Senator Oison: No, he did not show up in a panic, in any way,
shape or form. What he did was make certain commitments
about which my honourable friend knows.

Senator Oison: The honourable senator asks. "Why have it?"
He would not have said that a month or more ago when we were
in the middle of the campaign. Of that I am certain. The answer
to "why have it" was to try to do what he could - and the Prime
Minister did it well, apparently - to see that the referendum did
not get a majority for the "yes" side.

I can tell honourable senators this: There were millions of
people in what is flippantly referred to as the "Rest of Canada"
who stood helplessly by, frustrated that they could not get
involved in what was about to happen, or what might lead to the
breakup of their country. They did not like it. They expected the
Prime Minister to speak and to act for them, and he did. Is that
not clear? It is completely clear to me. He made some
commitments.

The Prime Minister was asked by the leader of the Reform
Party. "If it came out 50 per cent plus one, are you going to just
acquiesce to that and that is the end of the debate?" He asked that
question because many people in Western Canada were asking
how many more referendums it would take. It was a perfectly
legitimate question. I know why he did it. I understand a little bit
about politics in Western Canada, too. It was a good question
from his point of view.

I should now like to talk about what is involved in the motion
that is before us and, indeed, the proposed amendment in the
other place. I think that, de facto, Alberta has a veto, if by
themselves they want to use it. First, it has that de facto veto
because of having a majority of the population in the three
Prairie provinces.

The Prime Minister's answer was clear. He was not ready to
break up the country for 50 per cent plus one. Well, it happened
to be 50 per cent minus something like 50,000 votes.

Senator Berntson: Go and stick it to Saskatchewan and
Manitoba, then.
Senator Oison: Everybody wants to get ahead of themselves.
Wait until I explain it.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: We want you to catch up.
Senator Oison: I have caught up. I think they have a veto. I
guess that perhaps Alberta's population is greater than both
Manitoba's and Saskatchewan's populations put together.
Senator Berntson: Right on.
Senator Oison: That satisfies one part of the requirement. I
would bet anything that if Saskatchewan or Manitoba

All I want to say now is that I do not believe we need to raise
the spectre of this domino effect, that Alberta ought to be next.
Why not Alberta? British Columbia's population is slightly larger
than Alberta's. I think Alberta has 2.7 million people, while
British Columbia has about 3.8 million. That is going up, by the
way, at the rate of 8,000 a month.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: They are all leaving Alberta.
Senator Oison: I should advise my honourable friends that
Alberta's population is increasing rapidly too, in case they did
not know.
In any event, who will get ahead?
I do not think that we should let a few radio commentators do
to Albertans what I believe happened in British Columbia. Two
or three of them raised their rhetoric and heightened the attitude
amongst the population. It is just a terrible thing.

Senator Lynch-Staunton: Does Premier Harcourt have a
radio program'?
Senator Oison: 1 do flot care what he has; 1 arn giving you my
vie w.

That whcn the Senate adjourns today, it do stand
adîoumned until Tuesday. December 12. 1995, at two o'clock
in the afternoon.

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators. is leave

1 believe that British Columbia had a de facto veto under the
proposition made by the Prime Minister, even before it was
amended. Some people did flot agree with me. 1 guess Premier
Harcourt was one of them. He has a political problem in B.C.
that I do not have. I understand that pretty clearly.

granted'?

Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Motion agreed to.

PRIVATE BILL

Senator Lynch-Staunton: But your party has. That is why
you caved in and allowed them in.
Senator Oison: 1 do not think accommodating the people in
any part of this country, including British Columbia, should be
regarded as a cave-in.

Senator Lynch-Staunton: You caved in.
Senator Oison: No, we did not.
One principle of' politics -something that the Conservatives
neyer Ieamed -is that you should listen to the people.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: We consulted.

Senator Berntson: You should listen to them before.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: We had 10 premiers on-side.

EVANGELICAL MISSIONARY CHURCH (CANADA WEST DISTRICT)
REPORT 0F COMMITTEE ADOPTED

The Senate proceeded to consideration of the report of the
Standing- Senate Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs
on Bill S-12. to amalgamate the Alberta corporation known as
the Missionary Church with the Canada corporation known as
the Evangelical Missionary Church, Canada West District,
presented in the Senate on Thursday, December 7. 1995.

Hon. Gérald-A. Beaudoin moved the adoption of the report.
The Hon. the Speaker: Is

Motion agreed to and report adopted.

An Hon. Senator: Order. order!
Senator Simard: -Order. order"'? He makes sense.
Senator Oison: Honourable senators, 1 wanted a tew minutes
to explain this domino effect. 1 know what spin doctors can do to
these kinds of things if they get started on the wrong foot. 1 want
them to know that 1believe Alberta has an effective de.facto
veto. in the same way as Ontario or Quebec or British Columbia
has now.
1 hope it does not get any further than that.

Some Hon. Senators: Hear. hear!

it your pleasure. honourable

senators. to adopt the motion'?

TII)

READING

The Hon. the Speaker: When shahl this bill be read the third
time'?

Hon. Leonard J. Gustafson: With heave. now.
The Hon. the Speaker: Is heave granted, honourable senators?!
Some Hon. Senators: Agreed.
The Hon. the Speaker: Is
senators. to adopt the motion'?

it your pleasure. honourable

Motion agreed to and bill read third time and passed.

On motion of Senator Lynch-Staunton, debate adjourned.
BUSINESS 0F THE SENATE
ADJOURNMENT
Leave having been given to revert to Government Notices of
Motions:

Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourable senators. there has been discussion
between the leadership on both sides, and 1 would ask that ail
orders. reports. motions and inquiries stand.

Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourable senators. with heave of the Senate.
and notwithstanding rule 58(1)(h). I move:

The Senate adjourned until Tuesday. December 12, 1995, at
2 p.m.

2459

THE SENATE
Tuesday, December 12, 1995
The Senate met at 2:00 p.m., the Speaker in the Chair.

What a red herring of a statement!

Prayers.

Honourable senators. I ask: Is bilingualism as referred to in the
editorial only for Canadians living in Quebec? Surely not!
Canada has two officiai languages and the federal policies to
implement that reality. Canadians expect their federal
govemment to serve them in the officiai language of their choice,
and CBC Radio-Canada, our national broadcaster, has a policy,
approved some 20 years ago, which states that the publicly
funded broadcaster must serve officiai language minorities
wherever and whenever there are 500 or more living in a
community. That policy goes for the English in Quebec and the
French speakers outside Quebec.

PAGES EXCHANGE PROGRAM
WITH HOUSE OF COMMONS
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, before I proceed
to call Senators' Statements, I wish to inform you that we have
with us today two new House of Commons Pages who have been
chosen to participate in the exchange program with the Senate
for the week of December 11 to December 15.
I should like to introduce Peter Holland from Montreal,
Quebec. Peter is pursuing studies in international business at
Carleton University.
The other Page is Nancy Lobb, and she is also studying
international business at Carleton University. She is from
Holmesville, Ontario.

SENATORS' STATEMENTS
OFFICIAL LANGUAGES
PROLIFERATION OF FRENCH TELEVISION STATIONS
IN ONTARIO-COMMENTS IN MEDIA

Hon. Jean-Robert Gauthier: Honourable senators, a series of
articles in The Toronto Sun on December 5, 6 and 7 severely
criticized the spending of public money on French television in
the Greater Toronto Area by Radio-Canada, or CBC, and TFO,
Télévision française de l'Ontario, an arm of the provincial
educational TVO network.
The Toronto Sun has used, or I should say "misused," Bureau
of Broadcast Measurements, or BBM ratings, to make their point
that French-language television in Toronto is a waste of money
and should be drastically reduced in the name of budget
restrictions.
The Toronto Sun editorial of December 7, entitled "Pull the
Plug," argues that there are too many French-language television
services in Toronto: TVO, TFO, Radio-Canada, CBC and RDI.
RDI is the French equivalent of Newsworld. In the editorial, they
make the following assertions:
First, we're officially bilingual (fine this isn't Quebec.)

As for TFO/TVO, The Toronto Sun knows very well that is an

excellent educational television network in Ontario and that
TFO, the French arm of TVO, averages 175,000 viewers every
week.
Further, The Toronto Sun editorial implies that bilingualism "is
not an argument that impresses anyone any more." We in Canada
just lived through a difficult referendum in which our Quebec
compatriots reaffirmed their belief in a united Canada. One
would think The Toronto Sun would show more understanding
and generosity towards their French-speaking citizens in Toronto
and elsewhere in Ontario.
In the same editorial, The Toronto Sun argued that these
services of French-speaking television are mainly aimed at larger
French markets like Ottawa-Hull, and they make the comment
that the "status quo is untenable."
Honourable senators, if one were to follow the logic of The
Toronto Sun, we should cut budgets to French television in
Ontario according to an undetermined formula where numbers
would so warrant. What a silly proposai in a province as large as
Ontario, where the French-speaking population is spread over
most of its territory.
To get an idea of the position of The Toronto Sun, the editorial
is accompanied by a cartoon that promotes the idea of
expatriating French-speaking Canadians from Toronto to
Quebec. There should be no need, in their view, for
French-speaking services any more since the savings of closing
down French television could be used to buy French-speaking
Ontarians a house in Quebec and move them to that province.
Honourable senators, I have only one thing to say: Shame on
The Toronto Sun for advocating such a deportation of their
French-speaking fellow citizens living in Toronto. Shame on
them!

HEALTH
ADVERTISING OF TOBACCO PRODUCTSMEASURES ANNOUNCED BY MINISTER

Hon. Mira Spivak: Honourable senators. 1 would commend
tbe Minister of Healtb for tbe very strong proposaIs sbte presented
in tbe otber place yesterday to control tobacco products in
Canada.
As tbe minister acknowledged. tbe Tobacco Produets Control
Act does flot bave the tlexibility of eitber the Hazardous Prodncts
Act or tbe Food and Drug Act regnlating products tbat cost far
fewer lives.

Well before tbe Supreme Court annulled key elements of the
TPCA. many bealtb advocates tbonght it required substantial
amendrnent or replacernent. The minister bas nIow proposed new
legisiation to incorporate many features of the Hazardous
Products Act and tbe Food and Drug Act and to restore the
complete ban on advertising of tobacco products whicb the
Supreme Court struck down.
Tbis is good news. I am glad tbe govemrment is providing the
evidence to support its position on advertising. 1 arn also pleased
tbat tbe minister is addressing point-of-sale advertising, access to
cigarettes by young people. packaging and labelling, sponsorsbip
of sports and cultural events by tobacco companies. and tbe very
elements of tobacco prodncts.

Tbere will. no doubt, be protests from tobacco manufacturers
and trom sporting and arts organizations tbaî rely on tobacco
sponsorship. 1 can only say: Do not be deterred. Do not bend.
Otber measures sbould be considered to replace tbe funding tbat
tobacco companies bave provided to tbese organizations sncb as
cigarette taxes or otber industry funding. Perbaps Canada's banks
migbt be interested, given their current protit picture.

find their way into a bill which is just as strong. She bas my
support. 1 also hope that the Minister of Finance will see the
wisdorn of the beaitb minister's bluepint and again raise tobacco
taxes in the next budget.

JUSTICE
POLITICAL NON-INVOLVEMENT IN POLICE
INVESTIGATIONS-STATEMENT 0F MINISTER TO MEDIA

Hon. Marjory LeBreton: Honourable senators, 1 rise to put
on record shocking revelations regarding the Minister of Justice,
Mr. Allan Rock, as reported in yesterday's Globe and Mail that.
within days of being elected in 1993, he alerted the RCMP to
allegations that he had heard about Progressive Conservatives
and Swiss bank accounts. He stated:
"I have bad the practice ...as long as 1 have been in this Job,
that if anybody cornes to me witb information. implicating
anyone else in wrongdoing or suggesting any sncb thing,
then my practice is to pass that on to the RCMP."
Iben, after denying that he was aware that bis department bad
sent a letter to Swiss authorities naming former prime minister
Mulroney, be continues:
-Politicians sbould not be involved in police investigations."
However, that statement is irnmediately contradicted wben
Mr. Rock states:
-Wbenever 1 received any information of alleged
wrongdoing. 1 passed it on. and in tbis particular instance
that you are asking about. wbere we now know tbere is a
police investigation. I did not now there was a police
investigation under way and didn't know about tbe letter of
request to a foreign govemment."

In ber blueprint, tbe minister also cited sorne very telling
statistics that 1 bope ber colleague tbe Minister of Finance will
take to beart. Federal revenue from excise taxes and duties on
tobacco prodncts in fiscal 1993-94 was $2.6 billion. However.
tbe societal costs attributable to smoking that year were
$11 billion, rnore than four times as rnucb. 0f tbat amount.
$3 billion was spent directly on bealth care. The remaining
$8 billion was due to lost productivity.

This, two years later 1 rnigbt add. The Globe and Mail story
continues:

Tbese are not statisties a finance minister can afford to ignore.
Wbat can he do about tbose billions of healtb care dollars paid
every year by governiments. and tbe billions more lost to a
productive econorny? As tbe Healtb Minister's blueprint said:

"I don't tbink it is appropriate for me to communicate to
otbers. and particularly publicly. tbe information that 1 may
bave given tbe RCMP, about information tbat came to me
concerning sncb matters."I

Higber prices are a very irnportant disincentive to smoking.
especially for youtb. An effective rneans of raising prices is
tbrougb taxation.

Tbe Globe and Mail reports tbat the minister said tbat. in sncb
instances. it was bis practice to alert bis informants that he bad
spoken to the RCMP so tbat tbey would not be surprised.

1 sincerely bope that tbe strong tobacco control rneasures
proposed yesterday by tbe Minister of Healtb will, next spring,

Tbe most sbocking statement of ail. bowever is tbis one ont of
the rnoutb of the Minister of Justice wben be said:

On tbe specific issue of wbether and wben Mr. Rock spoke
to tbe RCMP about tbe allegations. tbe minister said
yesterday
And again there is a contradiction:

December 12, 1995

December 12, 1995

SENATE DEBATES
SENATE DEBATES

"I have never had an instance occur where I have passed
information on and heard back from the RCMP in any way
whatsoever... There is more than one circumstance in which
I have given information to the RCMP...and I have never
had a call back from the RCMP."
Mr. Rock is the Minister of Justice, and as such is the protector
one would hope - of the rights of individuals and the
administration of justice for all. In his statement, he says, "as
long as I have been in this job." It begs the question: To what job
is he referring? He says, "Politicians should not be involved in
police investigations," even though he calls his informants to
alert them of his referral to the RCMP.
This is shocking and unacceptable. We have a Minister of
Justice, the protector, supposedly, of our rights and justice
system, who admits that he is a police informer.
What are Canadians to think? There is something seriously
wrong here, and the Canadian public should be gravely
concemed. The Minister of Justice owes us all an explanation.
MANHUNT IN BRITISH COLUMBIAREINSTATEMENT OF DEATH PENALTY

Hon. Gerry St. Germain: Honourable senators, I recently had
the opportunity of meeting with Ms Cheryl Smith, aunt of Tanya
Smith, the young Abbotsford woman who was recently murdered
in British Columbia. I spoke with Ms Smith in regard to her
sincere concerns about the justice system in Canada.
I am sure many of you have heard the horrific circumstances
that led to the death of Tanya Smith on October 14 of this year.
While walking with a friend near the MSA hospital in
Abbotsford, British Columbia, Tanya was abducted and
murdered by a man who later dumped her body into the Vedder
River near Chilliwack, B.C. A province-wide manhunt is under
way in British Columbia to find and capture Tanya's murderer,
who has spent the last two months taunting police.
Obviously, the person who murdered Tanya is a sick and
dangerous individual. When captured, he should spend the rest of
his life in prison. This is the expectation of most Canadians and
the wish of the Smith family.
In our discussion, Ms Smith emphasizes that, once this
murderer is captured and brought to justice, she wants him put
away for life with no chance of parole. However, she is
disappointed that the govemment and the Minister of Justice,
Allan Rock, is not willing to make the necessary changes to
ensure that people who commit such crimes are not eligible for
parole. In fact, Liberal Member of Parliament John Nunziata
introduced a private member's bill that would have addressed
part of Ms Smith's concerns. However, the government,
including the Prime Minister and the Justice Minister, Mr. Rock,
voted against these changes.
Unfortunately, we cannot do anything to lessen the loss and
the pain felt by those who knew and loved Tanya Smith. Tanya's
murder is a true tragedy. However. we can do something in her
memory that will help to protect Canadians from these types of

criminals. I know that families across Canada, including the
family of Tanya Smith, believe that the government is not doing
enough to protect our children from these types of criminals.
Thus, I implore the government and the Minister of Justice to
introduce real, substantive, measures, not symbolic tinkering, to
amend the law and protect our children from this evil. Even the
consideration of reinstatement of capital punishment is foremost
in the minds of the families of victims right across this country.
Honourable senators, the majority of Canadians want the
reinstatement of capital punishment, but governments have failed
to act in that direction to protect the children of our country. I
would urge that some action be taken immediately.

ROUTINE PROCEEDINGS
AUDITOR GENERAL ACT
BILL TO AMEND-REPORT OF COMMITTEE

Hon. Pat Carney, Chairman of the Standing Senate
Committee on Energy, the Environment and Natural Resources,
presented the following report:
Tuesday. December 12, 1995
The Standing Senate Committee on Energy, the
Environment and Natural Resources has the honour to
present its
NINETEENTH REPORT
Your Committee, to which was referred the Bill C-83, An
Act to amend the Auditor General Act, has, in obedience to
the Order of Reference of Wednesday, December 6, 1995,
examined the said Bill and has agreed to report the same
without amendment.
Respectfully submitted,
PAT CARNEY, P.C.
Chairman

The Hon. the Speaker: When shall this bill be read the third
time?
On motion of Senator Graham, bill placed on Orders of the
Day for third reading at the next sitting of the Senate.
ADJOURNMENT
Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourable senators, with leave of the Senate,
and notwithstanding rule 58(1)(h), I move:
That when the Senate adjourns today, it do
stand adjourned until Wednesday, December 13. 1995. at
1:30 p.m.

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators. is leave

TRANSPORT AND COMMUNICATIONS

granted?

Hon. Senators: Agreed.

COMMITVEE AUTHORIZED TO MEET
DURINO SITTING 0F THE SENATE

Hon. Donald H. Oliver. with leave of the Senate and
notwithstanding rule 58(1 )(a). moved:

Motion agreed to.

APPROPRIATION BILL NO. 3, 1995-96
FIRSI READING

The Hon. the Speaker informed the Senate that a message
had been received from the House of Commons with Bill C- 116.
for granting to Her Majesty certain sums of money for the Public
Service of Canada for the financial year ending March 31, 1996.
Bill read tirst tinie.

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, when shaîl this
bill be read the second lime?
On motion of Senator Graham, with leave of the Senate and
notwithstanding rule 57( 1)(f, bill placed on the Orders of' the
Day for second reading later ibis day.

NATIONAL PROTECTED AREAS STRATEGY
TO AUTHORIZE ENERGY, THE ENVIRONMENT AND NATU RAI,
RESOURCES COMMITTEE TO EXTEND DATE 0F FINAL
REPORT-NOTICE 0F MOTION

Hon. Pat Carney: Honourable senators, I give notice that
tomorrow. Wednesday, December 13. 1995. 1 shaîl move:
That. notwithstanding the order of reference adopted by
the Senate on Wednesday. April 27. 1994. the Standing
Senate Committee on Energy. the Environment and Natural
Resources. which was authorized to undertake a study of the
policy options available to the govemmeni to complete the
network of pristine areas that represent Canada's natural
regions and the creation of a national protected areas
strategy and to make recommendations thereon, have power
to present its final report no later than Sunday.
March 31, 1996. and
That, notwithstanding usual practices. if the Senate is not
sitting when the report of the committee is completed. the
committee shaîl deposit its report with the Clerk of the
Senate. and said report shah I thereupon he deemed to have
been tabled in this chamber.

That the Standing Senate Committee on Transport and
Communications have power t0 sit ai three o'clock in the
afternoon on Wednesday. December 13, 1995, even though
the Senate may then be sitting. and that rule 95<4) be
suspended in relation thereto.
Motion agreed to.

ABORIGINAL PEOPLES
COMMITTEE AUTHORIZED TO MEET
DURING SITTING 0F THE SENATE

Hon. A. Raynell Andreychuk, with leave of the Senate and
notwithstanding rule 58(1 )(a), moved:
That the Standing Senate Committee on Aboriginal
Peoples have the power to sit at three-thirty in the afternoon
today, Tuesday. December 12, 1995. even though the Senate
may then be sitting, and that rule 95(4) be suspended in
relation thereto.
Motion agreed to.

JUSTICE
DAMAGE TO PARLIAMENTARY PROCESS

NOTICE 0F INOUIRY

Hon. Anne C. Cools: Honourable senators, pursuant t0
rules 56( 1) and (2). and 57(2), 1 give notice that, on Tuesday
next, 1 wili caîl the attention of the Senate to the frequent reports
in the national and international media. including varied
allegations naming the former Prime Minister. the Right
Honourable Brian Mulroney; the Minister of Justice, the
Honourable Allan Rock; Justice lawyer Kimberly Prost; former
Premier the Honourable Frank Moores; the Royal Canadian
Mounted Police; Airbus Industrie SA; Georgio Pelossi;
diplomtats and others. being matters that have become an
aggressive and shameful public spectacle; and to the handling of
these matters; and to the erosion of parliamentary process. and to
the damage caused to parliamentary government. to the Prime
Minister's Office. to the principle of ministerial responsibility. to
Parliament. and to senators, including myself. who voted on Bill
C- 129, the bill to privatize Air Canada, on August 4, 1988, in the
Standing Senate Committee on Banking. Trade and Commerce;
and to the belief that Parliament. in the interest of public
confidence. should take cognizance of these matters. and flot
leave them to conjecture. speculation and the media, but instead
take these matters into Parliament«s consideration.

December 12, 1995

2463

SENATE DEBATES

2463

SENATE DEBATES

December 12, 1995

QUESTION PERIOD
NATIONAL DEFENCE
SEARCH AND RESCUE HELICOPTERS REPLACEMENT
PROGRAM-STATEMENT OF REQUIREMENTSREQUEST FOR ANSWER

Hon. Gerald J. Comeau: Honourable senators, my question is
for the Leader of the Government in the Senate. It follows upon
a question raised by my colleague Senator Forrestall last month.
Could the minister please inform this chamber of the statement
of requirements for the purchase of 50 new search and rescue
helicopters, those which will replace the Labradors, as
announced by her colleague on November 8?
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, I have forwarded all the questions of
Senator Forrestall and Senator Comeau to the Department of
National Defence in order to obtain that information. I have not
yet received a reply.
Senator Comeau: Would the leader please ask the Minister of
Defence to speed up the request? There is much interest.
Obviously, the tenders will be called soon.
At the same time, would the Leader of the Govemment ask the
Department of National Defence when public tenders for the
replacement of the Sea Kings will be called?
Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators, I would be pleased
to do that.
COMMUNICATIONS
RADIO CANADA INTERNATIONAL-FUTURE PROSPECTS FOR
CONTINUANCE-GOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. Donald H. Oliver: Honourable senators, my question
relates to Radio Canada International. Can the Leader of the
Government in the Senate inform us as to the current state of
Radio Canada International and what the government's plans are
in relation to its continuance?
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators. I believe the corporation is prepared to
make an announcement on that issue. I would just as soon wait
until that has been done before I respond in detail to the
honourable senator's question.
Senator Oliver: Honourable senators, if the answer is that the
government will no longer support RCI, is the Leader of the
Government prepared to go to bat in cabinet to try to save this

important agency?
Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators, leaving the cabinet
aside, Senator Oliver will know that this government, and

govemments before it, have respected the arm's length principles
laid out in the Broadcasting Act. Let us wait to see what the
corporation has to say. At that time I will consider whether I can
go any further than that, although I probably will be unable to do
so.

[Translation]

Hon. Marcel Prud'homme: One of the things that
characterizes this country is its international reputation.
During my time in the House of Commons, I always
vigorously defended Radio Canada International, which has
earned this country a world-wide reputation. Radio Canada
International is listened to everywhere in the world, and it is
respected everywhere by people who want to get news other than
what they can get by tuning into the Voice of America or the
BBC.
Let me assure the minister that Canadians abroad have always
been proud, not only to listen to Radio Canada International but
also to hear what others have to say about it.
[English]

I understand the minister's intelligent approach with respect to
an arm's length principle. However, there is more to consider
than that. Radio Canada International serves our national
interests abroad. Therefore, I would join with anyone in this
place who would try to convey to the minister our strong support
for Radio Canada International. I, for one, would like to impress
on the minister that many senators are strong defenders of the
glory of Canada abroad. Everything feasible should be done to
keep Radio Canada International.
Will the minister convey to whoever is concerned our strong
views in this regard?
Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators, I would be pleased
to do that.
NATIONAL FINANCE
MEETING OF FEDERAL AND PROVINCIAL MINISTERSDISCUSSION OF POSSIBLE NATIONAL DEBT MANAGEMENT PLANGOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. Gerry St. Germain: Honourable senators, noting the
profound desire for change demonstrated in the referendum, on
November 3 the Honourable Jean Charest asked the Minister of
Finance the following question:
I wonder whether the Minister of Finance might not use
this opportunity to put forward a national plan to the country
to eliminate the public deficit and debt with objedtives we
could all support and joint deadlines and whether now is not
a singular time to do so for the benefit of the country as a
whole.

In response. Mr. Charest was bold that Ibis subjecl bad been
discussed aI îwo recent meetings of finance ministers. The
Minister of' Finance sîaîed:
1 agree wiîh him lotally about wbat must be done. namely.
drawing up a federal-provincial master plan witb very clear
objectives of consolidaîing public finances ai bolb levels of'
government.
Can the Leader of the Government in the Senate advise
honourable senalors wheîber the Minister of Finance will be
actively pursuing sucb a national debî management plan as
advocated by the Honourable Jean Charesî aI Ihis week's meeting
of finance minisiers? When does the governimenl expecl 10 move
beyond discussions and announce a joint plan 10, the country in
order to return sîability 10 our financial and invesîment
communities s0 that jobs can be created?

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of' the Government):
Honourable senalors will know Ihat the agenda of ministers of
finance, boîb federal and provincial, will undoubtedly be a broad
one. 1 am sure a discussion of deficits and debî will arise.
Wiîhin the pasi few days. the Minister of Finance bas made
clear the federal governmenî's position on ils own deficit
reduction program, whicb is on track. Indeed, he indicated an
extension of the three-year plan. 1 am sure be wilI be interested 10

hear the views and the reports of his colleagues from across the
country on their plans.
DEBT AND DEFICIT MANAGEMENT-EVALUATION 0F
INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUNO

GOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. Gerry St. Germain: Honourable senators. 1 have risen
in Ibis place on numerous occasions bo ask questions ofthIe
Leader of the Governmenî in the Senate as t0 wby 3 per cent of
the GDP was picked as an acceptable level of deficit. On many
occasions, she bas said Ibat ibis was a figure acceptable to world
financial markets. We now see that the government bas had t0
back off and go to 2 per cent of GDP as an acceptable level of
deficit.
When will the governimenî start dealing seriously witb the
deficit in Ibis country? Il is eroding confidence in the region from
wbicb 1 come. Il is eroding invesîment from outside the country,
as well as from witbin. This is because definitive action is flot
being taken.
Il appears Ibat the tederal govemrment is trying t0 hide bebind
the actions wbicb bave been forced upon the people of the
provinces of Ontario and Alberta. Il is hoping that it can use
Ibose actions as a smoke screen so thai il does flot look so bad in
dealing witb tbc tinances of this country, and doing wbat bas t0
be donc îo creabe jobs. Wben will Ibis action to deal with the
deficit be taken?

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators. Senator St. Germain makes a preîîy good
speech. However. 1 do flot agree with bim.

[Senatoi- Si. Germai nI

Senator St. Germain: Thank goodness you do flot agree with
me!

Senator Fairbairn: 1 wouid like Io point out to Senator
St. Germain two or three details.
The federal governiment bas put together ils deficit reduction
plan, which is the first plan in years 10 contain targets wbicb have
been reached. lndeed, the targets have been surpassed. Il bas set
out these targets in an effort to cut the deficit in a systematic and
realistic way. while ai the same lime leaving the federal
government able to provide the services that Canadians need.
The reason for tbe 2-per-cent level is that the governiment is
being extremely successful in what il is doing.

Senator St. Germain: That is because il had no choice.
Senator Fairbairn: As far as the international community is
concernied. there is support for Canada's record. The fact is that
Canada does not simply lalk about reduciiig ils deficit - il is
damed well reducing the deficit. That is happening on îrack. and
better Iban ever conlemplated. and enables us 10 go even further.
Thal is the one way 10 help create an economic climale in this
country wbich wiIl create jobs and, ultimately. bring down the
debt.
Senator St. Germain: Honourable senalors, why is il thal the
Japanese are currenlly reassessing Ibeir position as far as
invesîing in our foreign debt is concernied. and the dollar bas
dropped to about 72.4 cents" Is Ibis the result of' good
management'? Is Ibis because you have taken the proper sîeps ai
the right lime? Quit lrying 10 fool the world. You cannot fool
everyone. The IMF bold tbemn an acceptable level of deficit
should be 1.5 per cent of GDP. and that is wby the governiment
look the action il did. Il bad no choice.
1 believe Ibal the governiment is remiss in uts inaclivity, and
that inaclivily is causing the loss ot jobs rigbî across ibis country.
The govemrment is fearful of doing wbaî is rigbl.
a

(144oi)

Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senalors, Senator St. Germain
is absolutely wrong. The international communily is watching
Canada as Ibis governimenl keeps ils word on bringing down the
deticit. Il bas been doing il year after year, in conîrasî to the past
when 10 say îhaî deficit cutling projections were overshoî in a
major way was 10, put it mildly. The deficit reduction program of
Ibis government is accepled wiîb admiration around the world
because ib is working. It is nol jusl a bunch of talk.
Witb regard 10 jobs, il is only ibrough the government's
conîinued pursuit of' ils objective of eliminating the deficit that
there will be increased jobs in Toronto, Vancouver. Monîreal and
LetbbridiYe. That i s our objective.

December 12, 1995

SENATE DEBATES
SENATE DEBATES

December 12, 1995
[Translation]

Hon. Roch Bolduc: How can the Leader of the Government
state that the program is recognized worldwide, when the lead
institution, the International Monetary Fund, says that what is
being donc is incorrect, that we are dragging our feet, that it will
cost an additional $100 billion over the next three years?
[English]

Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators, Senator Bolduc is
far more expert in this area than I am, but the International
Monetary Fund is offering a prescription for Canada within the
confines of its own room where it is tabulating its statistics and
its projections. It does not have the responsibility of governing
this country for the people of Canada. This government is
seeking a mix and balance, combined with a flexibility, that is
supportive of Canadians in the services they require, as it
systematically reduces the deficit.

2465

2465

Hon. David Tkachuk: Honourable senators, to follow up on
the question by Senator LeBreton, the major function of the
office of the Minister of Justice is to protect individuals from the
power of the state and the potential misuse of the power of the
police in the administration of justice and due process. We have
heard reports, which are basically gossip, about certain people,
all without evidence. If the Minister of Justice cannot protect a
former prime minister from the excesses of the state and the
misuse of the power of the police, how can we expect him to
protect citizens in the course of the due process of law?
Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators, these are very
important issues and they are taken very seriously. One of the
underlying tenets which has been repeated in recent weeks is that
it would be completely wrong and inappropriate for a minister of
the Crown to be involved in police investigations. My
honourable friend has made some suggestions - and I use that
word because I do not want to use another - about the operation
of the RCMP in Canada which I find highly questionable and
quite disturbing.

JUSTICE
POLITICAL NON-INVOLVEMENT IN POLICE INVESTIGATIONSSTATEMENT OF MINISTER TO MEDIA-GOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. Marjory LeBreton: Honourable senators, my questions
are directed to the Leader of the Govemment in the Senate. They
deal with the shocking and troubling revelations, reported in
yesterday's Globe and Mail, that the Minister of Justice passed
on information to the RCMP about Progressive Conservatives
and Swiss bank accounts.
What information did he pass on, and on what date? From
whom did he get this information? Against whom were these
allegations levelled, and which of his informants did he alert that
he had contacted the RCMP?
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, I cannot respond to Senator LeBreton's
questions today, nor would she expect me to. However, it has
been made clear by the Solicitor General that whatever concerns
the Minister of Justice was passing on, they had nothing to do
with Swiss bank accounts.
Senator LeBreton: Honourable senators, I suggest that the
leader read the story in today's Globe and Mail about the
Solicitor General and the Minister of Justice.
As I mentioned in my statement, Mr. Rock stated that he has
never had an instance where he passed on information nor heard
back from the RCMP. He went on to say that there was more than
one circumstance in which he had given information to the
RCMP, and that he had never received a call back from the
RCMP.
This situation is extremely serious, and the government should
treat it as such. How many times has the Minister of Justice
performed the function of a police informant?

Senator Tkachuk: Honourable senators, I should like to
follow up on that point. I am not a lawyer. However, I know that
you cannot investigate someone for murder if there is no body.
There must be evidence before police investigate citizens and
write to other state officials about a matter.
We must have an investigation of the Department of Justice.
There is a pattern here: Bill C-22 is going to court; Bill C-68 is
going to court; I am sure that Bill C-110 will go to court. Now
we hear this gossip, yet people are saying, "We should not
interfere with the police investigation. We should let the police
run amok and decide who they want to investigate, without due
process."
Who will be responsible when nothing is found? Will it be the
Minister of Justice or the Commissioner of the RCMP? Someone
has to be responsible, and no one is responsible right now.
AUTHORITY FOR STATEMENT ON POLITICAL NON-INVOLVEMENT
IN POLICE INVESTIGATIONS-GOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. R. James Balfour: Honourable senators, would the
Honourable Leader of the Government in the Senate state the
authority for her statement to the effect that it is inappropriate in
all circumstances for a minister of the Crown to be involved in a
police investigation?
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, Senator Balfour asks for an authority. It has
been a convention of govemment for a very long time that it is
improper and inappropriate for a minister of the Crown to be
involved in the operational, investigative work of the national
police force. That has certainly been the view taken by this
government and, I suspect, by appropriate ministers in other
govemments.

Senator Balfour: My honourable friend bas not answered my
question. Would my honourable friend please cite the authority
for the statement she has made?
Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators, I am conveying to
Senator Balfour the convention as it is regarded, certainly by this
govemment and, I would suspect, by the governments preceding
it, that for ministers to involve themselves in a police
investigation is inappropriate. I would be more than pleased to
seek background for that statement and furnish it to my
honourable friend.
0 (145o)

stepped in to ensure that due process was applied to all the
people of Canada. That is what you are saying.
SALE OF AIRBUS AIRCRAFT TO AIR CANADA-ALLEGED
CONSPIRACY TO DEFRAUD FEDERAL GOVERNMENT-KNOWLEDGE
OF GOVERNMENT MINISTERS-REQUEST FOR PARTICULARS

Hon. R. James Balfour: Would my honourable friend tell us
precisely on what dates the Minister of Justice and the Solicitor
General became aware of the government-to-government
communication, addressed under the letterhead of the Minister of
Justice, to the authorities of the Swiss government concerning the
Airbus matter?

Senator Balfour: I assume my honourable friend's comment
applies both to the Solicitor General and the Minister of Justice?

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government): I will
attempt to secure those dates for Senator Balfour.

Senator Fairbairn: That is the information by which I am
guided, Senator Balfour. The minister said this repeatedly: He is
not involved directly, nor should he be involved directly, in the
operations of the RCMP.

SALE OF AIRBUS AIRCRAFT TO AIR CANADA-ALLEGED
CONSPIRACY TO DEFRAUD FEDERAL GOVERNMENTLIBEL ACTION BY FORMER PRIME MINISTER-SOURCE OF
FUNDING FOR GOVERNMENT COUNSEL

Senator Balfour: Would my honourable friend now agree that
she is saying something quite different?
Senator Fairbairn: I am sorry, I do not see the difference,
Senator Balfour.
Senator Balfour: By using the word "directly," I assume you
do not mean that the Solicitor General would put on dark glasses
and a false beard and follow the RCMP around in the day-to-day
conduct of their duties. Earlier, I had understood the honourable
leader to say that neither the Minister of Justice, nor the Solicitor
General nor any other minister of the Crown, would be
"involved" in a police investigation. Is that your position?
Senator Fairbairn: Yes, it is.
Hon. Gerry St. Germain: Honourable senators, I asked a
question previously of the Leader of the Government in the
Senate about the possibility of someone using the power of the
Ministry of Justice against a political opponent. In view of what
has transpired to date, and the fact that the Minister of Justice is
telling the media that he received certain information just after
the 1993 election, does the honourable leader still stand by her
position that this whole RCMP exercise is not politically
motivated, nor is it a witch hunt, as I had suggested it was and
still believe that it is?
Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators, I stand by the
position very firmly that these events are not politically
motivated, and certainly not. in the words of my honourable
friend, a "witch hunt."
Hon. David Tkachuk: In other words, what you are saying is
that when the state was running around interning Japanese during
the Second World War, the Minister of Justice should have

Hon. Orville H. Phillips: Honourable senators, my question is
for the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I want to know
who is paying the fees for the attorneys to represent the Minister
of Justice in the action launched by the Right Honourable Brian
Mulroney?
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, I assume that the Government of Canada is
paying the legal costs.
Further to the question from Senator Balfour, I have indicated
before in this chamber that the first intimation the Minister of
Justice had of a letter being sent to Switzerland was when he
received a phone call from Mr. Tassé. I will check the date.
Hon. R. James Balfour: A letter being sent, or that a letter
had been sent?
Senator Fairbairn: A letter had been sent.
Senator Phillips: In view of the sleazy
Minister of Justice and the Solicitor General
this inquiry, would the honourable leader
Minister of Justice should at least pay for his

way in which the
of Canada initiated
not agree that the
own attomeys?

FOREIGN AFFAIRS
SIERRA LEONE-PROPOSED NATIONAL
ELECTIONS-CONTRIBUTIONS TO SUPPORT FUNDGOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. Allan J. MacEachen: Honourable senators, let me say
that this is not a supplementary question to the previous
questions.

SENATE DEBATES

December 12, 1995

In view of the proposed elections to be held, or expected to be
held, in Sierra Leone in 1996, does the Leader of the
Government have any information on the support that is being
given by other countries to the election fund which is necessary
to carry out this election? What bas Canada contributed to the
fund? What have other countries contributed? How much is still
required to mount an effective election in that country?
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, I cannot give my colleague any detailed
information today on that matter, but I would be more than happy
to seek out such information and transmit it to him.

ORDERS OF THE DAY
CORRECTIONS AND CONDITIONAL RELEASE ACT
CRIMINAL CODE
CRIMINAL RECORDS ACT
PRISONS AND REFORMATORIES ACT
TRANSFER OF OFFENDERS ACT
BILL TO AMEND-THIRD READING

Hon. Landon Pearson moved the third reading of Bill C-45,
to amend the Corrections and Conditional Release Act, the
Criminal Code, the Criminal Records Act, the Prisons and
Reformatories Act and the Transfer of Offenders Act.
Bill read third time and passed.
THE ESTIMATES
REPORT OF NATIONAL FINANCE COMMITTEE ON
SUPPLEMENTARY ESTIMATES (A) ADOPTED

Leave having been given to proceed to Order No. 3, Reports of
Committees:
The Senate proceeded to consideration of the nineteenth report
of the Standing Senate Committee on National Finance
(Supplementary Estimates (A), 1995-96), presented in the Senate
on December 5, 1995.-(Honourable Senator Murray, PC.)

Hon. Lowell Murray moved the adoption of the nineteenth
report of the Standing Senate Committee on National Finance.
He said: Honourable senators, the Standing Senate Committee
on National Finance bas considered the Supplementary Estimates
(A) for the fiscal year 1995-96, and we recommend them to you
for your approval. As honourable senators are aware, an
appropriations bill has received first reading and will be brought
forward for second reading later this day.

2467

As the committee report indicates, these are the first
Supplementary Estimates of the 1995-96 fiscal year. Together
with the Main Estimates for this year, they raise total budgetary
estimates to $166.6 billion, which is some $3.1 billion more than
the expenditure framework announced by the Minister of Finance
in last February's budget.
When officials of the Treasury Board Secretariat appeared
before the Standing Senate Committee on National Finance on
November 23, they provided a number of reasons for this
disparity. Some expenditure items were included in the Main or
the Supplementary Estimates, even though they had already been
charged to the expenditures of previous fiscal years. For
example, there is a $1.2 billion statutory item in the
Supplementary Estimates of the Department of Agriculture and
Agri-Food for grants to grain producers under the Western Grain
Transition Payments Act. Because the Auditor General bas urged
the government to treat such amounts as a kind of account
payable at the time they are announced, the entire $1.2 billion
has been charged to the 1994-95 fiscal year. Similarly, the Main
Estimates included $800 million for multilateral debt relief
payments charged to the previous years. Consequently, when
budgetary expenditures are added up at the end of the current
fiscal year, $2 billion will be removed for these items. This may
confuse some. However, it will no doubt warm the heart of the
Auditor General at whose instance it is being done.
The 1995-96 Main Estimates also did not anticipate the
passage of Bill C-76 last June which repealed the Atlantic
Region Freight Assistance Act, the Maritime Freight Rates Act
and the Western Grain Transportation Act. Of course, if the
estimates had purported to take account of legislation that had
not been passed, then, of course, we would have another
complaint. The subsidies payable under these acts were included
in the Main Estimates but will be subtracted from budgetary
expenditures next spring.
Now that central policy reserves have been eliminated, the
funding for most new expenditures in the Supplementary
Estimates must come from reductions in authorities previously
granted by Parliament, or what the Treasury Board calls "frozen
allotments." In other words, new expenditures in departments
must come from within their existing budgetary allotments. For
example, the Atlantic Groundfish Strategy, or TAGS, bas a
component in Fisheries and Oceans to buy back fishing licences
and to encourage East Coast fishermen into other pursuits. The
major income maintenance and training programs under TAGS
are the responsibility of the Human Resources Department.
Because the demand for income maintenance was higher and that
for licensed buy-back lower than were forecast when the Main
Estimates were prepared, the increased appropriation
of $49.3 million in Human Resources Development is being
funded by a decrease of the same amount under Fisheries and
Oceans.

I am not sure whether the report of the Fisheries Committee of
the Senate tabled the other day by our friend Senator Rossiter
considered and commented on this phenomenon of a lower than
anticipated licence buy-back. However, it is a matter that the
Fisheries Committee of the Senate may want to look into in due
course. In any case, only the increase is shown in the
Supplementary Estimates. In other words, such transfers are
double counted, to be corrected when the 1995-96 books are
closed.

The Hon. the Speaker: Is it your pleasure, honourable
senators, to adopt the motion?

Another example is the $110.5 million being transferred from
the Department of Foreign Affairs and International Trade to the
Canadian International Development Agency which does not
show up as a reduction in the department's estimates. This
transfer was authorized by an Order in Council under the Public
Service Rearrangement and Transfer of Duties Act to permit
CIDA to assume what had been the department's responsibility
for operating expenditures and the payment of grants and
contributions in respect of "countries in transition," a term that is
applied to the former Soviet bloc countries of Central and
Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE

Your committee's chairman was surprised to learn during the
examination of this expansion of CIDA's activities that there has
never been any legislation authorizing CIDA and setting out its
mandate. Instead, CIDA was established in the 1968 estimates
and has its mandate and spending authorities renewed each year
in the appropriation acts for the Main Estimates. This is a matter
which, in the fullness of time, the Foreign Affairs Committee of
the Senate may wish to consider.
Honourable senators, this completes my remarks on the report
on Supplementary Estimates (A).
The Standing Senate Committee on National Finance is
presently studying the implications for the public service of
Bill C-76 and the likely effects of the Canada Health and Social
Transfer on provincial programs of health care, post-secondary
education and social assistance. We heard interesting testimony
on the CHST from the Caledon Institute of Social Policy and a
rather different perspective from representatives of the Fraser
Institute. We also met with the Associate Deputy Minister of
Health, Mr. Richard Van Loon; with the Deputy Minister of
Health for Alberta, Dr. Jane Fulton; and with the Honourable Joy
MacPhail, the Minister of Social Services for British Columbia in
her capacity as chairperson of the Provincial Social Services
Ministers of Canada.
We will complete the pre-Christmas phase of our hearings on
December 14 when Dr. David Zussman and Sheldon Ehrenworth
of the Public Policy Forum will discuss the government's
program review and the prospects for renewal of the public
service during and after the current downsizing program.
With those few remarks, honourable senators, I commend this
report and the subsequent appropriations bill to your favourable
consideration.

1Senator Munay]

Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Motion agreed to and report adopted.

EMPLOYMENT EQUITY BILL

Leave having been given to revert to Presentation of Reports
from Standing or Special Committees:
Hon. M. Lorne Bonnell, Chairman of the Standing Senate
Committee on Social Affairs, Science and Technology, presented
the following report:
Tuesday, December 12, 1995
The Standing Senate Committee on Social Affairs,
Science and Technology has the honour to present its
TWELFTH REPORT
Your Committee. to which was referred its report dated
November 22, 1995 on Bill C-64, An Act respecting
employment equity, has, in obedience to the Order of
Reference of Thursday, November 30, 1995, examined the
said report and bas agreed to modify it as follows:
Your Committee now reports Bill C-64 without
amendment, given the commitments made by the Minister
of Human Resources Development to the Committee on this
day, as follow:
That, by the first of March 1996, he will propose
amendments to Cabinet to extend coverage of the
Employment Equity Act to Parliamentary employers;
That he will prepare letters for the Standing Senate
Committee on Internai Economy, Budgets and
Administration and the House of Commons Board of
Internal Economy urging them to establish the
mechanisms and policies needed to implement the
principles of employment equity as envisioned in
Bill C-64; and
That guidelines and communication materials will be
developed, in consultation with the Honourable Senator
Noël A. Kinsella, other concerned Committee members,
representatives of the Department of Canadian Heritage,
groups representing members of visible minorities and
covered employers. in relation to the proposed definition
of "members of visible minorities."

December 12, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

2469
2469

SENATE DEBATES

December 12, 1995

The Committee expects that any improvements to this
definition resulting from the consultations would be
incorporated into the Employment Equity Act at the same
time as amendments relating to Parliamentary employers
are introduced. Regarding this last commitment, the
Committee draws the Minister's attention to the proposed
definition prepared by the Honourable Senator Noel A.
Kinsella as follows:
Page 2, Clause 3: replace lines 5 to 7 on page 2, with the
following:

e(151)

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, when shall this
bill be read the third time?
On motion of Senator Losier-Cool, bill placed on the Orders of
the Day for third reading at the next sitting of the Senate.
APPROPRIATION BILL NO. 3,1995-96
SECOND READING

"sons, other than aboriginal peoples, who are, because of
their racial origin or colour, in a visible minority in
Canada;".

Hon. H.A. Olson moved the second reading of Bill C- 116, for
granting to Her Majesty certain sums of money for the public
service of Canada for the financial year ending March 31, 1996.

Furthermore, the Committee, in light of the anticipated
coverage of Parliamentary employers, urges the Minister
to consider an amendment to clause 6 of Bill C-64 that
would have the effect of safeguarding the merit principle
where it occurs in existing policy or practice of these
employers. The Committee, in this case, draws the
Minister's attention to the proposai made by the
Honourable Senator Ethel M. Cochrane as follows:

He said: Honourable senators, Bill C- 116 deals entirely and
exclusively with Supplementary Estimates (A) for the fiscal year
1995-96. The explanation given by Senator Murray was
particularly useful. However, in addition to what he said about a
number of items in the report from the committee, I wish to draw
one or two other things to the attention of honourable senators.

"Page 6, clause 6:

(a) add after line 9 the following:
"(c) with respect to the Senate, the House of Commons
and the Library of Parliament, to hire or promote
persons without basing the hiring or promotion on
selection according to merit in cases where existing
policy or practice requires that hiring or promotion be
based on selection according to merit;" and
(b) re-number paragraphs (c) and (d) and any
cross-references thereto accordingly."
The Committee recalls the commitment made by officiais
from Human Resources Development Canada about the
development of guidelines related to the definition of
"persons with disabilities." The Committee expects that
these guidelines will likewise be developed following
consultation with the appropriate stakeholders.
Finally, the Committee suggests that a letter also be
prepared for the Parliamentary Librarian regarding the
implementation of employment equity at the Library of
Parliament.
Respectfully submitted,
M. LORNE BONNELL
Chairman

In total, these Supplementary Estimates (A) increase Canada's
forecast net spending requirements by an additional $2.4 billion,
representing planned expenditures provided for in the budget of
February 27, 1995, or reallocations under the new expenditure
management system. Approximately $936 million must be
approved by Parliament through this appropriation bill. The
remaining amount of approximately $1.5 billion represents the
net changes to forecast spending pursuant to a number of
statutory items that have already been approved by Parliament.
Some of the major items in these Supplementary Estimates
are, first, an increase of $453 million for most departments
relating to the operating budget carry forward to be used for
various operational requirements. Senator Murray dealt with
some of those.
Second, there is an increase of $1.2 billion for the Department
of Agriculture and Agri-Food for payments in connection with
the Western Grain Transition Payments Act. Senator Murray also
dealt with this. He also dealt with the amounts of money
withdrawn from the budget, the most important item being the
$560 million that was paid as a freight subsidy in the last budget.
Now, $1.2 billion needs to be authorized in connection with the
transition payments. This exercise has not yet been completed,
although the applications are in from the producers. In the future,
they will be paying ail of the amount that the railways will
charge for grain transportation; something which, in the past, was
partially paid for by the government at a cost of $560 million.
Third, there is an increase of $154 million for the Department
of Finance for the assumption of debt related to Canada Eldor
Inc., and to meet commitments by Canada under the Eldorado
Nuclear Limited Reorganization and Divestiture Act.

Honourable senators, with those additional comments to
Senator Murray's explanation of the report from the committee, I
would commend Bill C- 116 for favourable consideration by the
Senate.
Motion agreed to and bill read second time.
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, when shall this
bill be read the third time?
On motion of Senator Graham, bill placed on Orders of the
Day for third reading at the next sitting of the Senate.

final report to the Senate on the motion and the Message
referred to it on October 5, 1994, relating to certain
amendments to Bill C-22. An Act respecting certain
agreements concerning the redevelopment and operation of
Terminals I and 2 at Lester B. Pearson International Airport.

Hon. B. Alasdair Graham, Deputy Leader of the
Government: Honourable senators, I believe the same procedure
would follow for this item on the Order Paper.
The Hon. the Speaker: Does any other honourable senator
wish to speak? If not, the matter is considered debated, and the
vote will be held at 5:30 this afternoon by order of the Senate.

ELECTORAL BOUNDARIES
READJUSTMENT BILL, 1995
MOTION TO INSTRUCT LEGAL AND CONSTITUTIONAL AFFAIRS
COMMITTEE TO TABLE FINAL REPORT-VOTE DEFERRED

On the Order:
Resuming the debate on the motion of the Honourable
Senator Graham, seconded by the Honourable Senator
Robichaud. P.C.,
That it be an instruction of this House to the Standing
Senate Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs that
no later than Wednesday, December 13, 1995, it present its
final report to the Senate on the Message from the House of
Commons dated June 20, 1995, and on the motion of the
Honourable Senator Graham dated June 28, 1995, regarding
Bill C-69, An Act to provide for the establishment of
electoral boundaries commissions and the readjustment of
electoral boundaries.

Hon. B. Alasdair Graham, Deputy Leader of the
Government: Honourable senators, if no other senators wish to
speak on this motion, we have a house order for all votes on this
matter to be taken at 5:30 this aftemoon.
The Hon. the Speaker: If no other honourable senator wishes
to speak, debate on this item is considered concluded, and the
vote will be held at 5:30 this afternoon by order of the Senate.

PEARSON INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT
AGREEMENTS BILL
MOTION TO INSTRUCT LEGAL AND CONSTITUTIONAL AFFAIRS
COMMITTEE TO TABLE FINAL REPORT-VOTE DEFERRED

On the Order:
Resuming the debate on the motion of the Honourable
Senator Graham, seconded by the Honourable Senator
Lucier,
That it be an instruction of this House to the Standing
Senate Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs that
no later than Wednesday. December I3, 1995. it present its

[ Senatoi

Olson]

QUEBEC
MOTION TO RECOGNIZE AS DISTINCT SOCIETYDEBATE CONTINUED

On the Order:
Resuming the debate on the motion of the Honourable
Senator Fairbaim, P.C.. seconded by the Honourable Senator
Graham,-That
Whereas the people of Quebec have expressed the desire
for recognition of Quebec's distinct society;
(1) the Senate recognize that Quebec is a distinct society
within Canada;
(2) the Senate recognize that Quebec's distinct society
includes its French-speaking majority. unique culture and
civil law tradition;
(3) the Senate undertake to be guided by this reality; and
(4) the Senate encourage all components of the legislative
and executive branches of government to take note of this
recognition and be guided in their conduct accordingly.

Hon. John Lynch-Staunton (Leader of the Opposition):
Honourable senators, since the motion before us states the
obvious. one can only wonder why the matter has even been
raised. It is more a statement of fact than a subject for debate.
Perhaps the Prime Minister anticipated such a reaction in this
place, as his motion calling for recognition of Quebec as a
distinct society is addressed exclusively to the house. One would
have expected that a joint declaration would have been more
appropriate.
Instead. Mr. Chrétien tabled his motion on November 27, and
the Leader of the Govemment in the Senate tabled an identical
motion in this place eight days later. One would have thought
that. given the importance that the government places on the
motion, it would have realized that a joint declaration of the two
houses would have lent it more significance. Perhaps one can
find in the notes accompanying the motion the reasons for not
doing so.

December 12, 1995

December 12, 1995

SENATE DEBATES
SENATE DEBATES

The notes say that the motion does not amend the Canadian
Constitution. 'Nevertheless, it is a solemn and important
commitment by federal elected representatives, who are the only
ones to speak on behalf of ail Canadians." The word "all" is
underlined. What the Prime Minister is saying is that this
chamber does not have the responsibility nor the obligation to
speak for Canadians. He says in his notes that only federal
elected representatives can speak on behalf of ail Canadians.
I will leave it to my colleagues to ponder the significance of
that statement. Certainly, if it is not an insult to the 104 members
in this place, it is certainly a lack of appreciation of what our
parliamentary system is ail about.
In any event, honourable senators, what is before us is a
symbolic motion, as was confirmed in Prime Minister Chrétien's
remarks in the other place, and Senator Fairbairn's comments
here in this chamber last week. However, it is more than that,
unfortunately. It is largely a hasty reaction to the result of the
October 30 referendum, a result which put the federal
government in a state of shock and disarray, from which it has
obviously not yet recovered.
Honourable senators, these motions have been received in
Quebec with a large yawn, while causing consternation in much
of the rest of the country. This is but a first step, says the Prime
Minister, but he does not say a first step towards what. He has
said that now is not the time for constitutional discussions
because the Government of Quebec has indicated unequivocally
that they did not want to take part in such discussions.
In that statement, honourable senators, can be found the
reasons for the government's embarrassing floundering, but even
more worrisome, it confirms the Prime Minister's refusai to
accept obligations of national leadership. For if there is one issue
which must be the ultimate responsibility of the head of the
federal government, it is the one dealing with national unity.
Mr. Chrétien may detach himself from the daily routine of
government. However, he cannot remove himself from the
obligation inherent in his office which makes national unity its
main and constant priority.
Obviously ail Canadians are suffering from constitutional
fatigue. There is no question about that. From the patriation of
the early 1980s to Meech Lake to Charlottetown, few days went
by without the constitutional debate being in the forefront. When
Mr. Chrétien became Prime Minister, lie made it plain that the
Constitution would be low on his list of priorities, if on it at ail.
Events, however, particularly in Quebec, do not stop because
Ottawa closes its eyes to them. The election of the Bloc
Québécois, the election of the Parti Québécois, and the closeness
of the referendum results have led the Liberal govemment to the
conclusion that Quebec is riddled with separatists and that any
attempt to modify the Constitution is simply a non-starter.

What Mr. Chrétien and his advisors do not understand is that
many non-separatists voted for the Bloc Québécois because of
their disenchantment with the two traditional main-line parties.
They voted for the Parti Québécois in large numbers because of
their belief that a change of government after nine years was
essential. Many voted "yes" in the referendum because changes
in federal-provincial relations were long overdue.
What Mr. Chrétien and his advisors do not understand is that
nationalism is very strong, very pronounced and very permanent
in Quebec and has been for over 100 years. You can condemn
nationalism ail you want, but you cannot make it go away.
Over the years, relations between Ottawa and Quebec, and
Quebec and the other provinces, have been difficult, at times
dangerously strained. One can think of the reaction to the
Manitoba Schools Act, to Regulation 17 in Ontario, to the
conscription crises during two world wars, les Gens de l'air. The
list is much longer, but the conclusion remains the same. Who
best to protect Quebec's majority society than Quebecers
themselves?
I would remind honourable senators of those who, over the
years, have been the most ardent proponents of greater
recognition of Quebec's distinctiveness, people like Henri
Bourassa, André Laurendeau, Maurice Duplessis, Jean Drapeau,
Jean Lesage, Daniel Johnson, Sr., and Robert Bourassa, to name
but a few. They were not separatists. They believed that the more
control Quebec had over its own affairs, the better off it would
be, without in any way compromising the unity of this country,
perhaps even reinforcing it.
That feeling persists today. It may manifest itself in different
forms, but there is one constant which remains: The vast majority
of Quebecers want to remain part of Canada.
This is what Mr. Chrétien and his advisors do not understand.
They interpret Mr. Bouchard taking over the premiership of the
province and his blunt refusai to engage in constitutional
discussions as reason enough to abandon every attempt to do so.
In a way, I can understand the Prime Minister's reluctance to
engage in any constitutional round until obliged to do so in early
1997.
Mr. Trudeau was unable to include Quebec as a formal party to
the 1982 agreement. Mr. Mulroney was unable to see the Meech
Lake Accord ratified and the Charlottetown agreements approved
in the referendum. They were both severely politically damaged
as a result. Nevertheless, whether or not one agrees with the
objectives of both of them, as Prime Ministers they took the lead.
While they may not have succeeded in achieving their goals, they
did not fail in bringing leadership to that one overriding concern
which falls to the Prime Minister of Canada to tackle and to cope
with: national unity.

Mr. Chrétien fails Canadians not only by not taking the
initiative but by trying to convince Canadians that his hands are
tied because the Quebec government will not take part in
constitutional discussions, as if Mr. Bouchard should be
recognized as a valid spokesman of the vast majority of
Quebecers who want to stay in Canada. Mr. Bouchard will no
more speak for them than Mr. Parizeau has. It is for Mr. Chrétien
to speak for them, as be must speak for aIl Canadians who want
this country to remain united.
Provinces speak for themselves as individual entities which are
part of the whole. The national government is the only one which
can speak for the whole country as one indivisible unit.
This is a responsibility which Mr. Chrétien is refusing to take
on by introducing a so-called "unity package" which, in his
mind, fulfils vague commitments made only because of a
last-minute decision to participate in the referendum campaign,
after spending time in Western Canada assuring his listeners that
the No side would win handsomely.
Yes, it could be replied that these are but first steps. First steps
to where? Entrenchment in the Constitution'? No, not for the
moment anyway. because of the Quebec government's
intransigence. To where? Silence.
April 1997 is when the Constitution will be revisited, at least
as far as the amending formula goes. Does the government have
any other proposais for discussion then? Silence.
They are silent because they are lost. Naively. they actually
expected that by not raising the Constitution, it would fade into
the background.
The Prime Minister should. as soon as possible, bring down a
set of proposais which would be subjected to the approval of ail
supporters of federalism everywhere, including those in Quebec,
who - it cannot be repeated too often - form the vast majority
of its population.
Every federal government knows, or should know, that
separatists and ultra-sovereignists will never be satisfied unless
they and the provinces acquiesce to an association which is so
tenuous that it can only lead to the breakup of the country.
Canadians are united with few exceptions in forging an
alliance, for that is what a federation is all about, which wili keep
Canada one while accepting that some of its make-up deserves
special consideration and treatment.
I suppose we should be reassured that the Liberal govemment
bas at least finally decided to accept the words "distinct society"
in its vocabulary. The sudden conversion of those who so
adamantly opposed the Meech Lake Accord is welcome, but
really not that convincing. One only has to read the Meech Lake
Accord when it refers to Quebec and compare it with what is
before us.

1Senaî or L

ne h-Siaunion1

I will ask for my colleagues' patience to allow me to read the
proposed constitutional amendment of 1987. It stated:
The Constitution of Canada shall be interpreted in a manner
consistent with
(a) the recognition that the existence of French-speaking
Canadians, centred in Quebec but also present elsewhere in
Canada, and English-speaking Canadians, concentrated
outside Quebec but also present in Quebec, constitutes a
fundamental characteristic of Canada; and
(b) the recognition that Quebec constitutes within Canada a
distinct society.
The motion before us bas no reference to minorities. As to the
words "unique culture," the less said the better after the Prime
Minister's inability to define it himself last week.
What we have before us, in Senator Fairbairn's motion, is
simply a general, but not ail-inclusive, statement of fact, whereas
the Meech Lake Accord was a formai commitment to a stark
reality.
This is what is lacking from the Liberal government: both an
intention and a commitment, as bas been so embarrassingly
witnessed by the inability of the Prime Minister to explain what
be means by "culture," "Canadian," "Quebec" or other terms;
and by the Minister of Justice who said be could not widen or
increase the number of regions in the veto bill because it would
cause a domino effect. Then, less than 24 hours later, he
announced an amendment to the veto bill to include British
Columbia as a region.
This sort of improvisation is a sorry admission that the Liberal
government has no coherent policy on national unity, with the
result that the forces of disunity have taken the initiative.
To make things worse, Mr. Chrétien said yesterday that the
federal govemment might disallow a Quebec referendum if it did
not agree with the question. That is unwarranted provocation
which will enthral separatist supporters and cause dismay within
the federalist majority.
Even Mr. Trudeau refused to go this far when be was asked to
disallow Bill 101, the Quebec language bill, parts of which were
later confirmed to be unconstitutional.
There is a disquieting restlessness in Canada these days. The
provinces are again being treated as second-class partners, as
Ottawa takes on the role of big brother, trying to flex a muscle it
no longer bas, the spending power. For. deliberately or not, the
last federal budget, with its massive shifting of discretionary
spending to the provinces, bas introduced a new era in
federal-provincial relations, one during which the federal
government will inevitably withdraw from various jurisdictions
and transfer them to the provinces. As the roles of each change,
so must the relations between them.

December 12, 1995

December 12. 1995

SENATE DEBATES

SENATE DEBATES

It is hoped that the government will convene the premiers
hefore 1997 to discuss whatever constitutional changes are
required to meet the new realities of federal-provincial relations.
The question is not so much what the Quebec govemment may
or may not want, as it is what the vast majority of Canadians,
including Quebecers, want.
The reason for the urgency, in my opinion, is that there may
well be an election in Quebec before the summer, for the new
premier will certainly be tempted to capitalize on his personal
popularity to achieve from an election what he just missed
achieving in the referendum - the mandate to negotiate new
terms or to declare sovereignty.
The federal government must take the initiative now and
submit clear and precise proposals for full discussion, even if
they lead to reopening the Constitution, if for no other reason
than that, 1, along with the vast majority of Canadians, do not
want to lose this country, certainly not by default, which may
well happen if the inertia and paralysis which affects this
government persists much longer.
Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourable senators, there is an old Irish proverb
which says that it is better to be quarrelling than lonesome. If that
is true, it could be said that at no time in our collective history
have so many Canadians had so much companionship. All the
rancour, all the bittemess and all the cynicism which cloud our
great federation seem to have centered on the forthright and
realistic initiative put forward by the Prime Minister. He has
asked us to recognize Quebec as a distinct society and make
constitutional change contingent on the approval of specific
provinces and regions of the country.
As we all know, these proposals are not comprehensive,
definitive or particularly novel. They are simply a framework for
change and for a future "re-imagining" of Canada.
This "re-imagining" will depend entirely on the will of all the
parties concerned to negotiate in good faith. Since that will is
unclear, the Prime Minister could not logically commit himself at
this time to anything other than honouring his word to Quebecers
to start the process of change.
We have before us a very specific proposal, but what lies
behind all of the specifics is really the unique reality of our
country.
Too many voices across Canada see federalism as a zero sum
game. Too many voices now tell us that cooperation cannot be
possible because every gain for one region means an equal loss
for another region. Such voices have become more numerous,
increasingly bitter and, may I say, more futile over the last
decade. They add to the rhetoric but contribute nothing to the
solutions. "We want more," the voices say, "always more. What
is more for us, is less for you. What is less for us is more for
you."

2473
2473

Honourable senators, the zero sum concept of our federation is
rooted in attitudes and ideas which consider compromise and
cooperation, the glue of our great federation, to be impossible. I
have said before in this chamber that Canada is an easy target for
its enemies because it bas been built on a vision and a dream
based on tolerance, justice, cooperation and compromise. Once
cooperation, tolerance and compromise become unfashionable
and impossible, the dream dies.
On another front, over the last few weeks the world watched as
the leaders of the Bosnian tragedy met in Dayton, Ohio. I
thought, as I watched, "Pity we couldn't bring the three of them
together on a speaking tour all across Canada to tell us what the
ultimate cost of wanting even more really means."
As the Christmas season approaches, one might think of them
as the latter day spirits of Jacob Marley spelling out a grim future
for an unrepentant Scrooge. I wondered, "Is it that bad? Do we
really need that lesson on this subject all over again?"
I thought, too, of the thousands upon thousands who wait in
immigration offices around the world, seeking access to the best
country on earth. These people do not think for one minute that
the red maple leaf flies over a vast zero sum game which
circumvents one-fifth of the globe. Otherwise, they would not
seek access to Canada in such huge numbers. They want to come
here to find peace, freedom, understanding, compassion and
respect for the rights of the individual. Those are the values
which bind all Canadians: Quebecers, Nova Scotians, British
Columbians, Manitobans and aboriginal peoples who, together,
keep alive the ideal of unity in a single natural harmony.
All of these values make up the soul of Canada of which the
great Robertson Davies, whom we all mourned last week, once
wrote, "...needs nourishment, exercise and above all, love, if it is
to reach maturity." That nourishment will not come from
indifference; it will not come from intolerance. The exercise will
not come from rancour and mean spiritedness; it will come only
from faith and hope and action; it will come from generosity and
compassion. The national soul will not survive without the love
of all of our citizens, all of our communities, all of our provinces,
all of our regions.
Canadians showed the wealth of these human resources in the
historic national unity rally in Montreal. As I stood in the crowd,
I remembered, as no doubt so many did - no matter which
solitude they came from - these are the resources which have
won Canada respect and admiration in all parts of the world.
0

(1540)

These are the human resources which helped liberate Europe
and conceived an air bridge to Kigali amidst the horror and the
slaughter in Rwanda. These are the human resources which
conceived and built a compassionate, freedom-loving society
north of the 49th parallel. These are the human resources which
explored and threw open a continent, resources which found no
mountain or no river too hard to cross.

Canadians were called upon to undertake ail these adventures
in wartime and peacetime. They did flot say, "We want more.
always more. What means more for you means less for us." No.
Canadians did flot say that. Quebecers did flot say that. New
Brunswickers did flot say that. Ontarians did flot say that.
Newtoundlanders. Albertans. the people of Prince Edward Island
and Saskatchewan did flot say that. They said. "We are
Canadians. We are ready. We will do what is needed. We will do
what is necessary.In Canada today, when so many voices so stridently observe
that our country is only a zero sumr game. it seems to me that we
must reacquaint ourselves with the real truth about Canadians.
When our people are asked to choose between hope and
darkness. they choose hope. When our people are asked to
choose between generosity and selfishness. we have. throughout
our history. chosen generosity.
We must remember when times are tough and when times are
bitter, as certainly they are in our country today. Most important.
we must remember that national unity is a daily act of will. The
national unity rally should flot have ended in Montreal. National
unity must be a never-ending campaign.
[Translation]
1 think that the peaks of the rally were marked by ordinary
Canadians. I think of the citizens of small cities who see to it that
their children learn both officiai languages. or of the inhabitants
of Lac-Saint-Jean who take their vacations in British Columbia
or in Newfoundland, and of those who teach their children that
we do flot live in a vacuum in Canada, but that our distinctive
trait is our strength, wherever we live.
[En glish I

Honourable senators. we must level the playing field of ideas
in this country with new conviction. because, as 1 have said many
times before. history and the future. surely. must be on our side.
1 would neyer want to downplay the enormity of the challenges
ahead. but 1 believe a littie historical perspective might be in
order.
In 1891. our young federation appeared to be at a critical
crossroads, and in a letter to Edward Blake, Wilfrid Laurier
confided his fears. I quote briefly from that letter:
We have come to a period in the history of this young
country where premature dissolution seems to be at hand.
How long can the presenit fabric last? Can it last at aIl'?
Now, 104 years later. many of' us ask ourselves the same
questions. It may be that, in another 104 years, new generations
of Canadians wiIl still be struggling with vital questions
pertaining to the perfecting of the greatest multicultural
fedteration on the face of the earth. That is what it has always
meant to be part of the adventure of this great nation - always
searching. always struggling to build a better and stronger
country for ail Canadians.
For this and future generations. we must flot falter. We must
flot fail in this resolve and in this resolution.
[Translation]
Hon. Pierre Claude Nolin: Honourable senators, it is obvious
that 1 will support the motion of the Leader of the Government.
I would like to take this opportunity l'or examination of the
proposai to share some comments and the outcome of my
research with you.

We must fight. honourable senators, line by line. word by
word. the campaign of lies and deception being waged by some
people about the real meaning of' our country. We must level the
playing field of ideas, flot only in Quebec but throughout the
whole of Canada. We must ensure that in the struggle for the
hearts and the minds of Quebecers, indeed of al] Canadians. the
forces of pan-Canadian vision are seen and understood in every
small village and town. in every sehool and university. in every
urban and rural forum possible.

There is no doubt that the 1995 referendumn has given us
breathing space. The result was flot conclusive when it comes to
the reality of numbers. as no one can conclude that because
49.4 per cent of Quebecers aged 18 or more have voted yes.
49.4 per cent of Quebecers are separatist.

We must ensure that ail] Canadians are reacquainted with our
national soul. We must ensure that those forces within Canada
today which reject compromise and compassion. which reject
tolerance and social justice, and, in doing so. reject the values
which are and have been the glue binding Canadians of al
regions and aIl provinces. are seen and understood to, be what
they are - forces which debilitate and weaken the resolve and
the will to be Canadian. We must remember that the red maple
leaf is a symbol of hope f'or the future of' the planet. and is
recognized as such in ail forums of the world community.

Last week Senator Beaudoin spoke about a 16-month window
of opportunity. 1 think this is a very realistic way of looking at
the constitutional future of our country. Within 16 months. the
premiers and the Prime Minister must reach agreement on the
constitutional amending formula.

1Seciatoi-cb

liaîii 1

1 do flot think those are the conclusions to be drawn. However.
there is one lesson to be learned from this: that Canada is
certainly sick, and we must find a remedy.

There is no doubt that Quebec's separatist political leaders will
attempt to find in the outcome of this conference. which could be
held earlier. the prool that Canada is truly ill. and that there is no
cure.

December 12, 1995

December 12, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

SENATE DEBATES

I have read and reread the Prime Minister's statement to the
House of Commons in order to seek some inspiration from it, and
I must tell you that I was inspired. In my opinion, the Prime
Minister has acknowledged, as he did in the referendum, the
principles which underlie our history. I ought to interject here
that I feel the only way this discussion can be held is in an
extremely open and extremely positive atmosphere.
Senator Graham referred to the rally on October 27. I must say
that the Canadians who were there were moved by hope and a
vision that anything was possible, and that together we would be
able to find a way to cure this malaise.
These Canadians, and others who unfortunately were not
present but would have liked to be there, sent a very clear
message to the politicians. The message was to stop their short
term politics, set aside partisan considerations and find a
solution, because they believed it could be done, and the
politicians would have to find a solution because Canadians were
convinced there was one.
Today, I want to be very positive and share a few thoughts
with you. I think we have to ask ourselves a very important
question. Why does the vast majority of Quebecers demand a
statement recognizing the distinct identity of Quebec within
Canada? I think we have to ask that question. As a Quebecer, I
will try to answer that question, and I hope other Quebecers will
have a chance to do likewise.
To be able to answer this question, we must look at Canada's
past history and try to identify the roots of the celebrated
compromise other colleagues have mentioned since we started
the debate on this resolution.
We should recall that, in the course of the debate that resulted
in the British North America Act, 1867, the Fathers of
Confederation were faced with a political problem. The
politicians of Upper Canada, with the demographics on their
side, had clearly identified proportional representation as the way
of the future. Politicians in Lower Canada agreed, while realizing
that demographics might not be in their favour. However, that
was a minor problem.
Economic considerations caused the representatives of Upper
Canada and Lower Canada and the Atlantic colonies to craft a
compromise. It was multilateral between four colonial entities
with their colonial borders, but it was also bilateral; a
compromise between two clearly identified communities, one
francophone and the other anglophone.
Although a Conservative, John A. Macdonald was no strong
proponent of a federal state, favouring instead a unitarian state, a
single Parliament with proportional representation for everyone.
George Étienne Cartier, for his part, supported what would
become a federal state. For him and for the representatives of the
provinces - or rather, the Atlantic colonies at the time - the

2475
2475

best and only way to protect their local reality was to give this
new, emerging country a system with two levels of government
that could best protect the realities of the mainly anglophone and
francophone communities.
Let us not forget that the Quebec community is not limited to
its francophone majority. Even then, Quebec had a thriving
anglophone community. It was important for these two
communities to be able to develop within Canada.
George Étienne Cartier's option prevailed. The existence of
two cultural and linguistic communities, with different values but
capable of joining forces to create a country, was finally
recognized in 1867.
We could engage in a long debate on what Mr. Macdonald
received in return. The federal govemment ended up with powers
traditionally devolved to federation members. We, in Canada,
decided to be more creative and to consolidate some of the
powers at the federal level, leaving the provinces free to pass
legislation to protect their realities, thus allowing Quebec to
preserve its language, denominational system, including culture
and civil law, among others.
Canada evolved on the basis of this compromise. It became
sovereign through the Statute of Westminster. The Judicial
Committee of the Privy Council and the Supreme Court of
Canada tempered the over-centralizing effects of these federal
powers. Some still remained, to the great displeasure of several
Quebec premiers. I am referring in particular to the federal
spending powers. Nevertheless, Canada has continued to evolve.
Then came the years 1981 and 1982. This is truly the critical
point of my argument this afternoon. I believe Canada broke its
own tradition during those years.
I told you about the collective rights that had been recognized
in the BNA Act. In 1982, Canadians, except for Quebecers,
adopted a charter of individual rights, without recognizing the
existence of these famous collective rights.
By contrast, the charter recognizes the collective rights of
aboriginal peoples. It recognizes, as an interpretative clause,
multiculturalism in Canada, but it makes no reference to existing
collective rights in Quebec, nor in the rest of Canada.
Earlier, an honourable senator referred to the linguistic duality
found in the Meech Lake Accord. That duality is part of the
Canadian reality. In 1982, there was no such interpretative
clause. Since then, Quebecers have been trying to have that
reality acknowledged.
The Meech Lake Accord was an attempt to solve the issue.
Unfortunately, as we all know, it failed. Given what we have
gone through since 1990, with the experience of Meech I am
convinced that if we could turn back the clock we would get
overwhelming support for the 1987 constitutional accord.

This is simply what Quebecers want. This is why we want a
rule of interpretation in the Canadian Constitution which would
say to the Supreme Court that there exists a charter of individual
rights and that no one objects to it. Since 1982, everyone has
become used to living with the charter.
However. the Supreme Court should not forget that there is
also an interpretative clause which requires it, when determining
whether an individual right exists or not, to also recognize
collective rights.

three federalist political parties present in Quebec approved that
text. We agreed on a text. There is a sentence worth reading
carefully, under the heading "Quebec's Place in Canada."
Because of our history and our francophone majority. we
are a true national community. We have aIl recognized the
existence of that national community. We have even done it
on your behalf.

Honourable senators. during the Meech Lake debate, the
question was asked as to whether the collective rights of Quebec
took precedence over those guaranteed by the Charter. Not one
Quebecer can be found who will tell you that these rights should
have precedence over the rights guaranteed by the Charter.
However, both sets of rights must be considered at the same
time: they must coexist. That is the challenge facing us.

Now we have to deliver the goods. We will surely vote in
favour of the resolution. In the remaining 16 months, we will
have to do more than that. Let us not be afraid to travel
throughout our regions: in particular, those of us who are from
Quebec should go outside Quebec. Let us go and explain to
people living in other regions that this is not so complicated.
There are certainly other things that Quebecers will want to
recognize in the changes announced at the time of the
referendum.

In 1982, we agreed to recognize in our Constitution the
existence of aboriginal or treaty rights. In 1995. we are looking
for an expression of this coexistence. We do not have an answer
yet, but we are looking for one. The people of Quebec do not get
the impression that this quest for their collective rights is taking
place in the rest of Canada. What they are asking for is not the
end of the world. AlI they want is the natural historical
consequence of the conditions set in 1867, and that prevailed.
albeit imperfectly, until 1982.

The distinct society declaration is symbolic for Quebecers, but
particularly for non-Quebecers. They have heard ail kinds of
nonsense about the meaning of the distinct society. Today, I tried
to give you my version of that definition. It does not give Quebec
more powers, but certainly not less. It is simply a recognition of
history. We owe it to ourselves to spread that information. We
have 16 months to do so. It is important for us to get on with this
task with firm resolve. and with the conviction that we will
succeed.

Some will say that the legislative basis for the collective rights
of francophones and of the anglophone minority in Quebec can
still be found in the British North America Act. What role does
the Charter play in ail that? A major role.
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senator, your speaking
time had expired. Is leave granted to allow the honourable
senator to proceed?

[En glisthJ
Hon. Richard J. Stanbury: Honourable senators, it is my
privilege to join my colleagues on both sides of this house in
supporting the resolution that we have before us, to recognize
Quebec as a distinct society within Canada.

Senator Nolin: I shall be brief. Could this rather technical
interpretative clause have, for aIl intents and purposes, a merely
symbolic value as well? Quite certainly. I have decided to
support the motion now before us.

As a country, we have survived a turbulent history in recent
decades while modernizing our Constitution. The most recent
challenge was the most frightening. Canadians everywhere came
face to face with the prospect of losing Quebec; Quebecers came
face to face with the prospect of losing their special place in
Canada. Canadians everywhere rallied together in support of a
united Canada.

I hope that it will only be a first step, and that it will lead,
within the 16 months remaining before the April 1997 deadline,
to the entrenchment of this declaration in our constitutional
documents, as the people of Quebec are demanding. and rightly
so. It is not too much to ask to see this reality entrenched in our
Constitution. They are asking for no more and no less than that.

During the referendum campaign, the Prime Minister made a
commitment to recognize that Quebec forms a distinct society
within Canada. The first opportunity to do that in a constitutional
way will not come until 1997. However, in the meantime,
Parliament can bind itself to act on that principle, and that is
what this resolution is about.

I would like to read an excerpt from a booklet distributed to aIl
households in Quebec during the referendum campaign. The
booklet contains - and it was not easy to write - the beliefs of
federalists and those of independentists-separatists. Under the
Quebec Referendum Act, the Chief Electoral Officer must
distribute to every home in Quebec a document like this. AIl

Quebec is a distinct society within Canada - we ail know
that. Its French-speaking majority, its unique culture and its civil
law tradition ail combine to make it a distinct society. Canadians
throughout this land acknowledge and take pride in Quebec's
distinctiveness. We are enriched by it. That was the message that
resounded loud and clear during the referendum campaign.

Hon. Senators: Agreed.

| Senatoi Nolin

j

December 12, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

Recognizing the distinctiveness of Quebec within Canada does
not take anything away from the rest of the country. To the
contrary, it continues the natural course of evolution of our
country set in motion from its inception.
From the eighteenth century, the history of our emerging
country has been one of tolerance, mutual respect and
accommodation. The right of the Quebec people to maintain their
historic language, religion and civil law was recognized in the
very beginning. Our differences have put us to the test, but also,
I believe, our differences lie at the heart of our greatest
achievement: our distinctiveness, if you will, as a country.
Our ability as a country to accommodate cultural and linguistic
differences has set us apart from other nations. We have fought
the trend of assimilation to one North American mould. We have
waged our battle through laws - laws such as the Officiai
Languages Act, and constitutionally entrenched rights to
minority language education; laws that express our character as
one nation, uniting - without erasing - histories, cultures and
languages into a single, united future.
To understand a country, I have always looked to its origins.
Our soul as a country owes its strength and character not only to
our European ancestors from Britain and France but also to the
Inuit of the far north, the many tribes of native Indians and those
people whose origins are of the English, French and Indian
peoples, the Métis. These are the people who formed our
foundation, who settled the rock and soil on which we live, who
built our cities and established our institutions. This foundation
of mutual respect and tolerance, our flexibility as a nation, bas
made Canada an attractive beacon for peoples of many different
cultures, histories, religions and languages. It is together that we
will forge our future.
By recognizing the distinctiveness of Quebec, we honour this
heritage, the concept of our forefathers. We honour Canada. At
the same time, we show our faith in our future, in our ability to
find a path that both accommodates and unites us in our
differences.

2477

Our Constitution bas allowed our provinces and regions to
retain their own character and uniqueness. Quebec has been able
to tailor its educational, industrial and social programs to meet its
linguistic and cultural needs. The real battles which we all face
are not over these matters; they are over the powers our
Constitution gives to the federal government. They are over
foreign affairs, financial and fiscal management and international
trade. These are the powers that the separatists covet. There is
nothing to suggest that Quebec's independent exercise of these
powers would add a morsel of food or a penny of wealth to the
citizens of Quebec. There is reason to consider that these
problems are most efficiently addressed by a large and unified
nation; but these issues are not discussed by the separatists in the
debates on sovereignty. Our appeal must be to the people of
Quebec, not to the officiais who want those powers, and who
make it clear that they are not interested in any other solution.
The Prime Minister has made a commitment to undertake
changes that will bring services and the decision-making process
closer to the citizens of Canada. The unemployment insurance
system is being transformed in a manner that respects provincial
jurisdiction in education and training. Labour market training is
being revised to eliminate program duplication and foster a true
partnership between the federal government and the provinces to
help Canadians find jobs and ensure that they have proper skills
for the technology-based job market that we now face.
I have confidence in the ability of Canadians everywhere, and
especially of Quebecers, to pierce the fog of lies and
misrepresentations that some have wrapped around this debate.
This resolution is a first important step to assure Quebecers
that our country, united, can grow stronger and thrive in the
economic, technological and cultural challenges of the
twenty-first century. Together, we can meet these challenges.
Together, we can maintain our unique character.
I invite honourable senators to join with me in supporting this
resolution.

We cannot say that the English-speaking majority in this
country has always understood how to accommodate our
differences. We cannot say that no fissure has developed. The
referendum vote was far too close for complacency. It signalled
the need to recognize, in word and deed, a new phase in our
nationhood. This resolution is an important step toward that goal.

Hon. Orville H. Phillips: Honourable senators, it is not my
normal nature to mix or associate with the politically famous or
infamous, depending on your viewpoint. Rather, my pleasure
comes from associating with normal people, such as the members
of this chamber.

I will tell honourable senators that I am worried, not about
whether Quebec can retain its distinct character within Canada,
for I have absolutely no doubt of Quebec's ability to thrive
within this great country. However, I am worried because I
wonder whether the separatists' goal is really about
distinctiveness, or whether it is really about power. As
politicians, I think we understand the danger of individuals
manipulating national aspirations for political gains.

Today, I feel ambitious. I will rub elbows with some famous
Canadian politicians and give my reasons for rubbing elbows
with those particular individuals.
Senator Graham: Sit back and relax!
Senator Phillips: Do not relax, Senator Graham. I consider
you among the well-known Canadian politicians.

The first individual with whom I will rub elbows is the Right
Honourable Pierre Elliott Trudeau. In case honourable senators
have forgotten, he was the Prime Minister during the 1982
Constitution talks. Mr. Trudeau shifted his position on every
subject. He was like a ship without a rudder. When a breeze
came along, he drifted with it. However, there was one subject on
which he did not veer, and that was the distinct society clause.
Recently, Mr. Trudeau held an event in Ottawa in which he
donated certain papers to the National Archives. I believe, too,
there was a book-launching at the same time. On that occasion,
Mr. Trudeau reiterated his opposition to the distinct society
clause.
•

(162i)

I recall the questions asked of him in the television interview.
His response was, to paraphrase. "How can you be distinct from
another Canadian?" I remind honourable senators of that
comment.
It would come as no surprise to anyone if I said that
Mr. Trudeau is not among my political heroes. However, having
given him honourable mention on the distinct society clause, I
hope I do not have to buy or read his book.
The Leader of the Government in the Senate was what I would
describe as "the Marjory LeBreton of Mr. Trudeau's office." She
exerted great influence on the Prime Minister of the time. She
persuaded him to break every commitment and every promise
except one, and that was his opposition to the distinct society
clause. Mr. Trudeau never veered: he never hesitated. He was
opposed to it.
After having spent the majority of her life telling the rest of us
what a super human being. a super intellect and a super
Constitution-maker Mr. Trudeau was, today Senator Fairbairn. in
this motion. denies the whole thing. She says that Mr. Trudeau is
a washout and a dud.
This raises an interesting question. There is only one
explanation for why Senator Fairbairn, in that former
incarnation, could persuade Mr. Trudeau to change his mind on
everything except the distinct society clause, and that is that she
supported him in his opposition to it. Today the Leader of the
Government in the Senate. Senator Fairbairn, denies ail of that.
That is to say that Mr. Trudeau was a failure; a washout.
Honourable senators, there has not been a denial like that since
Peter denied Christ almost 2,000 years ago.
Senator Fairbairn goes beyond her own denial. She insists that
Senator Hébert. Trudeau's old China hand, deny him also. I know
that Senator Hébert has written a book on his association with
Mr. Trudeau in China and elsewhere, and he made a fortune on it.
However, I ask my honourable friend whether he would knuckle
under to Senator Fairbairn and deny Mr. Trudeau.
Senator Gauthier: Damn right he will.

[ Senator Phillips 1

Senator Phillips: I suspect that will be the truth, Senator
Gauthier.
I have a great deal of sympathy for the honourable senator
when he is knuckling under. It must be very unpleasant for him.
Senator Gigantès, who is faced with very difficult family
situations, a former wordsmith for Prime Minister Trudeau, will
have to deny him as weil.

I remember when the Deputy Leader of the Government in the
Senate was president of the Liberal Party. He and the Prime
Minister used to walk down Sparks Street, sometimes hand in
hand, and provide photo opportunities. I recail that when that was
happening one of the colleagues on his side said, "That is an
example of the two extremes in intellect.Will Senator Graham now deny the intellect of Prime Minister
Trudeau? Will he say that he is a washout and a dud and
condemn him? I hope not. because Cape Bretoners. and Nova
Scotians in general, are usually very loyal. I hope that Senator
Graham will keep up his Nova Scotian traditions and remain
loyal.
No discussion would be complete without the participation of
Senator Carstairs, another very distinguished Liberal with whom
I am rubbing elbows today. I need not remind honourable
senators of Senator Carstairs' history as the leader of the Liberal
Party in Manitoba. She campaigned throughout Manitoba and.
indeed. several other provinces, opposing the inclusion of the
distinct society clause in the Constitution. Where is she today?
She is. unfortunately, silent. Senator Carstairs was closely
associated with Elijah Harper. the NDP member of the Manitoba
legislature. You will recall that Elijah Harper delayed the
Manitoba legislature.
Senator Carstairs is a very persuasive person, except in her
arguments. She must have exercised a great influence on Elijah
Harper, because he left the NDP and joined the Liberal Party and
is now a member of the other place.

He joined the Liberal Party because that was his chance, his
best opportunity, his most effective way
Senator Thériault: -

to get elected.

Senator Phillips: - of opposing the distinct society clause. I
wonder how Elijah feels today.
Prime Minister Chrétien, in his book Straightfroin the Heart,
expresses pride and, in fact, boasts about his prominent part in
developing the 1982 Constitution. Honourable senators, I must
confess that I read part of the book, but only part of it. I did not
finish it. Enough is enough when you are reading that nonsense.
I presume that, throughout the book. he supported the fact that
the distinct society clause was not included in the 1982
Constitution, and that he was proud of his part in forcing the
1982 Constitution on Quebec.

December 12, 1995

December 12. 1995

SENATE DEBATES

SENATE DEBATES

He continued his opposition to the distinct society clause
throughout the discussion on Meech lake, and he continued it
throughout his discussion on the Charlottetown accord.
Has anyone forgotten the joyous meeting between
Mr. Chrétien and Clyde Wells at the Liberal leadership
convention? The television cameras were ail in place, and
Mr. Wells was making a belated entrance because he was busy
opposing the Charlottetown accord in the Newfoundland
legislature. Mr. Chrétien met Mr. Wells at the pre-arranged spot
and thanked him for the delay he had caused.
In fact, Premier Wells does not seem to have given up his
opposition. In October of this year during the referendum The Hon. the Speaker pro tempore: I apologize for
interrupting, but the rules require that I point out that the
honourable senator's time has expired. You may continue with
leave. Is leave granted. honourable senators?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
The Hon. the Speaker pro tempore: Please continue.
Senator Phillips: Honourable senators, this is most awkward
for me because I have just begun. However, I will attempt to
consolidate my remarks.
I was mentioning that Premier Wells, during the referendum,
reiterated his statement that he would never agree to a distinct
society clause that implied that his people were inferior in any
way to those in the other provinces.
We in the Progressive Conservative caucus were rather
fortunate to have in our midst the Honourable Arthur Tremblay
to advise us on constitutional issues. Since his retirement from
the Senate he has been an adviser to the PQ government.
Senator Cools: Shame! Shame!
Senator Phillips: He opposes the proposai before us.
We were equally fortunate in having the Honourable Senator
Beaudoin as our constitutional adviser. I frequently ask Senator
Beaudoin for advice on legal matters, not only constitutional
matters but others, and he always advises me of the issues on
both sides of any argument.
I watched him on CBC Newsworld when he was being
interviewed as an expert on the Constitution. He said, "Well, if it
is in the form of a resolution, it could be meaningless. If it is in
the form of legislation, it could mean something." Then he came
to the point that left me wondering. He said, "It all depends on
how the courts interpret it."
I am not criticizing my honourable friend for that statement. It
is a very valid point. What is there in this resolution that the
courts must interpret? John Crosbie said, when we introduced the
Constitution in 1982, that it would be 50 years before the

2479

2479

interpretation would be complete. I hope that we are not getting
into the same situation here.
During the October referendum. the Prime Minister ignored
the predictions that the sovereigntists would win. Waving in front
of the television camera, he would say, "Remember the 1982
referendum? I was there. I know. The polls were worse than they
are today, and the people voted 60/40. They will do the same
thing. It is a non-event. Do not worry about it."
It was not until the international monetary markets began to
take note of the impending separatist win that Prime Minister
Chrétien decided to take a serious look at the situation. His
reaction was most interesting. He looked around and realized,
"By God, I have no one in the Liberal cabinet or the Liberal
caucus who can change this direction", so he calied upon Jean
Charest. Somebody had to save Canada. Jean Charest turned the
tide, and he did not do it by making a lot of promises,
constitutional or otherwise. He stayed with basic, economic
questions. He was most effective when he asked, "What kind of
future do you want for your children and grandchildren?" That,
honourable senators, was the turning point in the referendum. He
received very little credit or thanks. In fact, he was not allowed
to speak on the CBC, nor was he allowed to speak in the House
of Commons on this motion.
*(1640)

Senator Simard: Shame!
Senator Phillips: That, honourable senators, cannot be
described as gratitude for saving Canada.
The Prime Minister introduced a rather pathetic package
which he misnamed "the unity package." This raises an
interesting point. How much time and how much study went into
preparing this package? The Prime Minister spent most of
November in Israel, Australia and New Zealand. Did
Mr. Chrétien receive his inspiration for this package from the
Star of Bethlehem, from gazing up at the Southern Cross, or did
he receive his inspiration when he made one of his brief visits to
the Northern Hemisphere, looked up at the big dipper, said, "Ah,
there is the answer," and then dumped the whole contents of the
big dipper over us?
The package is ill-conceived, ill-prepared - in fact,
honourable senators, I would say that it was drafted by Michel
Dupuy during Question Period.
The 1982 Constitution came "straight from the heart." I ask
honourable senators: Where did this "misunity" package
originate? I suspect that the Prime Minister has had indigestion
as a result of the referendum and has regurgitated the Victoria
proposais.
This "misunity package" has created more disunity than the
October referendum. I say to the Prime Minister with respect:
Jean Charest saved your bacon in October. It is time to send for
him again, honourable senators, because Canada needs him.

I ask honourable senators this: Why the haste for a
constitutional conference on this legislation? A constitutional
conference must be held in 1997. I believe that in approximately
15 months from now we will have a constitutional conference.
Why create all this discord and disunity? Why have provinces
take a viewpoint now and entrench themselves in a certain
position from which they will find it difficult to extricate
themselves later on?
I would suggest, honourable senators - in fact, I recommend
strongly - that we take time to prepare a package that will
satisfy Quebec, the western provinces and, indeed, all parts of
Canada. I feel that there is a movement towards separation in the
western provinces that we are ignoring. If Quebec can have a
referendum, so can the other provinces. This government is
moving towards a financial crisis. Imagine what would happen to
the dollar if we had a referendum in Quebec, a referendum in
Alberta. and one in B.C.?
Honourable senators, I hope I am not interrupting the
conversation over there.
Senator Prud'homme: I thought that was coming.
Senator Phillips: That is quite possible, honourable senators,
if we ignore the aspirations of various parts of the country.
One of the things I wanted to mention - and I will condense
this part, even though I should like to expand on it - is that one
of the reasons for the discontent in Western Canada is the fact
that the cabinet representation from Western Canada is the
weakest I have seen on Parliament Hill since 1957. It is soft,
secret and. above all, it is scared; scared to speak out for its
region. The west now realizes that they cannot depend on the
Liberals of Mr. Chrétien. Preston Manning and the unreformed
are ineffective. Honourable senators, it is time to send for
Mr. Charest again. Not only does Quebec need him, so does the
rest of Canada.
Earlier, I mentioned the Constitution conference - and here.
again. I will abbreviate my notes. I have a couple of questions;
the Prime Minister may have answered one of them yesterday.
What happens to the distinct society clause when the
constitutional conference occurs in 1997? Does it expire? What
happens to the regional vetoes? Do they expire? Have we given
them just a temporary measure, only to say, "Here. Enjoy this for
15 months. We will then take it away later on"?
Prior to Hallowe'en, the stores in our area had sales on potato
chips and Mrs. Phillips bought some to hand out to children on
Hallowe'en evening. I noticed, as I passed them out at the door,
that the kids would look at me and say. "Oh, no. Not more potato
chips!" Honourable senators, I think Quebec will interpret this
exactly that way. They will say, "Oh, no. Not more potato chips
- and only until next Hallowe'en."

I Senator

Phillips

I

One omission from the so-called unity package that saddens
me is any mention of Canada's native people. If the Prime
Minister spent a little more time in Canada, he just might have
remembered that the native people, too, have a language
problem. They. too. have a cultural problem. It is in far more
danger than the language of the majority of people in the
province of Quebec.
It is my hope that the resolution. or at least Bill C- 110, the veto
bill, will go to a Senate committee. Once there, I hope the Senate
will fulfil its function and remember that minorities are a very
special part of our responsibility.

Frequently we hear the apologists for the unity package - and
there are many, honourable senators - say that this is only the
first step. A Chinese proverb says that every journey begins with
a single step. Well, honourable senators, at my age, before
beginning a journey, I like to know several things: I like to know
where we are going and what to expect when we arrive there,
plus the time of arrival. The idea of this being only a first step
does not appeal to me. I want to know where we are going, why
we are going there, and when we will get there.
Honourable senators, the past few months was a period of
great emotion for Canadians. Surely all the emotion and the
undue friction of the last months deserve a better answer than
this pathetic motion from a posturing Prime Minister.
Honourable senators, forgive me for taking so long, but I could
speak on this subject for hours.
In concluding, honourable senators, when you send your
Christmas card to the Prime Minister, instead of writing on it
"Enjoy your Florida holiday." write on it, "Send for Jean Charest;
you need him again!"
On motion of Senator Bacon, debate adjourned.

EXCISE TAX ACT
INCOME TAX ACT
BILL TO AMEND-REPORT OF COMMITTEE-DEBATE CONTINUED

On the Order:
Resuming the debate on the motion of the Honourable
Senator Kirby, seconded by the Honourable Senator Davey,
for the adoption of the Twenty-Sixth Report, as amended, of
the Standing Senate Committee on Banking, Trade and
Commerce (Bill C-103, An Act to amend the Excise Tax
Act and the Income Tax Act, with an amendment),
presented in the Senate on December 5, 1995.

December 12, 1995

December 12. 1995

SENATE DEBATES

SENATE DEBATES

Hon. Lowell Murray: Honourable senators, when I spoke at
second reading debate on November 7, I indicated the support of
my party for the principle and intent of this bill. In doing so, I
was on pretty solid, historic ground.
The purpose of this bill is to maintain the integrity and
effectiveness of a policy, the origins of which are to be found in
the report of the O'Leary Royal Commission which had been
appointed by Prime Minister Diefenbaker in 1961. That policy is
to prohibit the importation into Canada of split-run editions of
foreign periodicals. These are the bogus Canadian editions of
large foreign publications. For the incremental cost of printing a
few thousand extra copies on top of their U.S. press run, with a
page or two of Canadian content, they are able to siphon off
Canadian advertising dollars. The Canadian magazine industry
could not have survived such competition. In any other field,
these split runs would be defined as "dumping."
The Canadian magazine industry today is alive and relatively
well in part because of the recommendations of the O'Leary
Royal Commission. The legislation implementing that policy has
been in force for 30 years. Until the arrival of the Reform Party
in 1993, it had the support of all parties in Parliament. It is
Conservative policy; it is Liberal policy; and, most important, it
is understood at home and among our trading partners to be
Canada's policy.
Some Hon. Senators: Hear, hear!
Senator Murray: It is an important part of our cultural policy
protected under the Free Trade Agreement with the United
States, under the NAFTA and, I believe, under the new GATT
agreements as well.
The challenge to the policy, and therefore to the survival of the
Canadian magazine industry, came in 1993 when Time Warner
decided to circumvent the prohibition on the importation of split
runs by using electronic transmission of page proofs and printing
the so-called "Canadian editions" in Canada. Subsequent actions
by the Mulroney government, by the Campbell government and
by the Chrétien government have already been outlined in the
debate on second reading and in the committee. They form the
background to Bill C-103.
This bill was given second reading by the Senate on
November 7 and was referred to the Standing Senate Committee
on Banking, Trade and Commerce. The committee met in a
marathon session of a day and a half on November 30 and
December 5 and heard from all interested parties. Concerns were
expressed, notably by the Canadian Bar Association, about the
drafting of this bill. Also expressed were substantive policy
concerns about perverse and unintended effects of the legislation
such as preventing Canadian magazines, in the future, from
penetrating the U.S. market using split runs. Ironically, the bill
intended to protect the Canadian magazine industry also protects
the U.S. against Canadian split runs. Harrowsmith magazine is
an example of a Canadian magazine which has penetrated the

2481
2481

U.S. market through split runs. The Hockey News may be
another.
Honourable senators, I share these and other concerns.
However, when the time came for the committee to report, I
found myself in disagreement with my Conservative colleagues
on the committee as well as with some of my Liberal colleagues
on the amendment which is now before us. I believe, therefore,
that I owe the Senate an explanation.
First, let me say that I did try at the committee to canvass the
alternatives to Bill C-103. One alternative which appealed
greatly to me was to amend the Tariff Code to capture electronic
transmission.
Government witnesses deployed various abstruse arguments in
an effort to discourage me from pursuing this alternative. I
suspect, and I have some reason to believe, that behind their
reluctance to try this policy is the conviction that it would be
more vulnerable than is Bill C-103 to a challenge under
international trade law. I am not in a position to dispute this.
Under the circumstances, therefore, I must accept their judgment.
I also explored the possibility that Bill C-103 is unnecessary
because the regulations brought in under the Investment Canada
Act in July 1993 by the then minister, the Honourable John
Charest, effectively closes the door to other foreign publications
doing what Sports Illustrated Canada has done. It certainly

seems as if the Charest regulations have been effective, because
no other foreign publication has tried to follow in the footsteps of
Sports Illustrated in the past two-and-a-half years.
However, the govemment and the Canadian magazine industry
are absolutely convinced that many U.S. publications - VanitV
Fair and others have been mentioned - could publish split-run
Canadian editions without ever establishing a business, an office
or even a telephone number in Canada, thus escaping the
authority of the Investment Canada Act.
However, we are left with Bill C-103. The question before us
is not whether to defeat it but whether to amend it in such a way
as to grandfather 12 issues of Sports Illustrated Canada.This is

not a matter of retroactive legislation. As Senator Davey pointed
out in his speech here last Thursday, the excise tax on split-run
editions will apply only to split-run editions that are published
after the day on which the bill receives Royal Assent. The issues
of Sports Illustrated Canada that have been published over the
past months, and previous to the date of Royal Assent, will not
be subject to the tax.
Why, then, should Sports Illustrated Canada be given a

licence to publish 12 split runs a year in the future?
The chairman of the Standing Senate Committee on Banking,
Trade and Commerce, in his speech last Thursday, expressed
doubt that Sports Illustrated "had even been told that what they
were doing was against government policy." The evidence,
Senator Kirby suggested, leans the other way.

Honourable senators, the policy and the legislation prohibiting
importation of split runs has been in effect for 30 years. There
could not have been the slightest possibility of a doubt.
especially on the part of an organization as sophisticated and
experienced as Time Warner. as to Canada's policy. as to its
purpose and its intent. Almost from the moment in January 1993
when Time Warner announced their plans to commence
publication of' Sports Illitstrated Canada, repeated public
statements by responsible government officiaIs. elected and
appointed. affirmed Canada's intention to uphold the spirit and
intent of our policy and legislation, and to plug any loopholes
that might be found.
Let me place a couple of those declarations brietly on the
record. On January 13. 1993 - two days after the Time Wamer
announcement - the Minister of National Revenue. the
Honourable Otto Jelinek said:
The rules and regulations in place now are going to be
applied and if they attempt to circumvent them. we will do
whatever is necessary.
The news article from which I am reading goes on to state:
Jelinek said the rules are meant to ensure that the
struggling domestic magazine industry has access to
advertising revenues and are not undercut by foreign giants
that can offer lower rates.
"We fought to maintain our cultural exemption under free
trade," he said.
On January 20. 1993, it was reported:
Marie-Christine Dufour, senior communications adviser
to Minister of Communications Perrin Beatty. says that the
approval of' Investment Canada isn't enough, if other
regutations aren't being met.
Talking about the Time Warner plan, she is quoted as having
said:
At first glance, this seems to be contravening the spirit. if
not the letter, of the tariff. Perrin Beatty is committed to the
Canadian magazine industry and we will do everything in
our power to maintain that protection.
From the February 1993 issue of Masthead magazine, it was
reported:
The government's position seems solid aIl the way to the
top. Asked if Beatty has the support of his cabinet
colleagues on this issue, a senior Department of
Communications officiaI said, "The Prime Minister himself
has said to the minister that he wants the department to
come down hard on this.- The officiaI implied that the
government wants to be seen as standing behind the cultural
industries exemption in the Free Trade Agreement.

1Seiiaioi

MNur1-a\ 1

On February 3, 1993, Mr. Beatty is quoted as having said:
We will do everytbing to support that policy fully. We're
determined to ensure that the Canadian magazine industry is
able to survive in the country.
Again, Mr. Beatty. on February 9. 1993. said that he wants to
ensure the Canadian cultural policy is respected regardless of the
technicalities. Here is the quotation:
"If somebody were to find a loophole in the law we
would want to find ways to ensure that the letter andi the
spirit of the policy were respected." he said.
"We will defend the policy vigorously.Though Revenue Canada has not yet completed its
review. Beatty suggested that Time-Warner. which owns
Sports Illustrated. is at least violating the spirit of the
federal magazine policy.
March 17. 1993 the Minister of National Revenue is quoted as
having said:
"If they're going to want to circumvent the rules, then
we're going to look at cbanging the rules to protect the
Canadian industry," Jelinek said...
Finally, on March 26, when we appointed the
O'Callaghan-Tassé task force. the news release over the names of'
Communications Minister Beatty and Revenue Minister Jelinck
announced that there would be a formai review of "the necessary
mcasures to enhance its policy in support of the Canadian
magazine industry.A littie later Mr. Beatty is quoted as saying:
"The (Jovernment wants to ensure that the instruments
within its current policy framework that have fostered thc
development of this industry are up-to-date and effective"..
"Canada bas produced a vibrant. home-grown magazine
industry whose livelihood depends on Canadian advertising
revenues," Mr. Beatty said. "It is a tundamental
characteristic of our cultural policy," he added.
Finally. honourable senators. 1 ask you to pay particular
attention to this statement from March 26. 1993, when we
appointed the O'Callaghan-Tassé task force, a statement
attributed to Mr. Jelinek:
"The electronic transmission of page proofs across the
border for printing and distribution in Canada was not
envisaged when the policy instruments were established in
1965.- the Minister said. -That is why updating
enforcernent mechanisms is absolutely vital."

2483
2483

SENATE DEBATES

December 12. 1995

SENATE DEBATES

December 12. 1995

Honourable senators. 1 do flot think that those statements by
responsible Canadian officiais could have left any doubt - if
any doubt existed - as to the intentions of the government,
faced with the decision and the business plan of Time Wamner
and Sports Illustrated Canada. Time Warner found that
technology could be used to circumvent the legisiation and to
frustrate its purpose and intent.
Honourable senators have heard the govemment statements of
1993 that 1 just quoted. Against this background, what Time
Warner did was flot illegal; just contemptuous of Canada, of
Canada's policy and of Canada's interest.
I say, honourable senators, that the technology was widely
available to other foreign publications, but other foreign
publications were respectful of our policy and did not try to
thwart it. OnIy Time Warner did so, and they now seek an
exemption fromn this legisiation to the extent of 12 issues per year
of Sports Illustrated Caniada
Honourable senators, 1 believe Parliament's answer, Canada's
answer, must be "No" - no bonus, no dividend, no reward for
thumbing your nose at Canada's long-standing policy.

*(1730)

ELECTORAL BOUNDARIES
READJUSTMENT BILL, 1995
MOTION TO INSTRUCT LEGAL AND CONSTITUTIONAL AFFAIRS
COMMITTEE TO TABLE FINAL REPORT NEGATIVED ON DIVISION

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, it was moved by
the Honourable Senator Graham, seconded by the Honourable
Senator Robichaud, P.C.:
That it be an instruction of this House to the Standing
Senate Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs that
no later than Wednesday, December 13, 1995, il present its
final report to the Senate on the Message from the House of
Commons, dated June 20, 1995, and on the motion of the
Honourable Senator Graham dated June 28, 1995, regarding
Bill C-69, An Act to provide for the establishment of
electoral boundaries commissions and the readjustment of
electoral boundaries.

Somne Hon. Senators: Hear, hear!
On motion of Senator Kinsella, debate adjoumned.

Motion negatived on the following division:

CODE 0F CONDUCT
REPORT 0F SPECIAL JOINT COMMITEE ADOPTED

The Senate proceeded to consideration of the second report of
the Special Joint Committee on the Code of Conduct (namne
change in French), presented in the Senate on December 6, 1995.
Hon. Donald H. Oliver: Honourable senators, I move that the
report be adopted now.
Motion agreed to and report adopted.
BUSINESS 0F THE SENATE
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, it is now about
three minutes before the time when we would interrupt the
proceedings and ring the beils. The only item left is the
adjoumnment motion.
If it is agreed, honourable senators, we will suspend the
session now. The belîs will start to ring at 5:15, as provided for in
the rules.
Is that agreed?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
The sitting was suspended untîl 5:30 p.m.

YEAS
THE HONOURABLE SENATORS
Adams
Anderson
Austin
Bacon
Bonnell
Bosa
Bryden
Carstairs
Cools
Davey
De Bané
Fairbaimn
Gauthier
Gigantès
Grafstein
Graham
Haidasz
Hays
Hébert
Hervieux-Payette
Kenny
Kirby

Koîber
Lewis
Losier-Cool
MacEachen
Marchand
Milne
OIson
Pearson
Perrault
Petten
Pitfield
Poulin
Rizzuto
Robichaud
Rompkey
Roux
Stanbury
Stewart
Stollery
Thériault
Watt
Wood--44.

NAYS
THE HONOURABLE SENATORS
A ndrey ch uk
Angus
Atkins
Balfour
Beaudoin
Berntson
Bolduc
Buchanan
Camney
C harbonneau
Cochrane
Cogger
Cohen
Comeau
DeWare
Di Nino
Doody
Doyle
Eyton
Ghitter
Griniard
Gustatson
Jessiman
Johnson
Kelleher

Kelly
Keon
Kinsella
Lavo je-Roux
LeBreton
Lynch-Staunton
MacDonald (Halifax)
Meighen
Murray
Nolin
Oliver
Ottenheimer
Phillips
Prud'homme
Rivest
Roberge
Robertson
Rossiter
St. Germain
Simard
Spivak
Stratton
Sylvain
Tkachuk
Twinn-50.

Motion negatived on the following division:
YEAS
THE HONOURABLE SENATORS
Adams
Anderson
Austin
Bacon
Bonnell
Bosa
Bryden
Carstairs
Cools
Davey
De Bané
Fairbaim
Gauthier
Gigantès
Grafstein
Graham
Haidasz
Hays
Hébert
Hervieux-Payette
Kenny
Kirby
Lewis

Losier-Cool
MacEachen
Marchand
Milne
OIson
Pearson
Perrault
Petten
Pittield
Pou lin
Prud'homme
Rizzuto
Robichaud
Rompkey
Roux
Sparrow
Stanbury
Stewart
Stollery
Thériault
Watt
Wood--45.

NAYS
THE HONOURABLE SENATORS

ABSTENTIONS
THE HONOURABLE SENATORS
Nil.

PEARSON INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT
AGREEMENTS BILL
MOTION TO INSTRUCT LEGAL AND CONSTITUTIONAL AFFAIRS
COMMITTEE TO TABLE FINAL REPORT NEGATIVED ON DIVISION

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourahle senators. it was moved by
the Honourable Senator Graham. seconded by the Honourable
Senator Lucier:
That it be an instruction of' this House to the Standing
Senate Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs that
no later than Wednesday. December 13, 1995. it present its
final report to the Senate on the motion and the Message
referred te, it on October 5. 1994. relating to certain
amiendments to Bill C-22. An Act respecting certain
açnreemients concerning the rede velopment and operations of
TerminaIs 1 and 2 at Lester B. Pearson International Airport.

Andreychuk
Angus
Atkins
Balfour
Beaudoin
Bemntson
Bolduc
Buchanan
Carney
Charbonneau
Cochrane
Cogger
Cohen
Comeau
DeWare
Di Nino
DoodyRobertson
Dooy
Dyol

Kelly
Keon
Kinsella
Lavoie-Roux
LeBreton
Lynch-Staunton
MacDonald (Halifàx)
Meighen
Murray
Nolin
Oliver
Ottenheimer
Phillips
Rivest

Ghitter
Grimard
Gustafson
Jessiman
Johnson
Kelleher

Simard
Spivak
Stratton
Sylvain
Tkachuk
T\wýinn-49.

Roberge
Rossiter
St. Germain

December 12, 1995

ABSTENTIONS
THE HONOURABLE SENATORS

SENATE DEBATES

2485

The Senate adjourned until Wednesday, December 13, 1995, at
1:30 p.m.

THE SENATE
Wednesday, December 13, 1995
The Senate met at 1:30 p.m., the Speaker in the Chair.

On motion of Senator MacDonald, report placed on the Orders
of the Day for consideration at the next sitting of the Senate.

Prayers.

BRITISH COLUMBIA TREATY COMMISSION BILL,

ROUTINE PROCEEDINGS

REPORT 0F COMMITVEE

PEARSON AIRPORT AGREEMENTS

Hon. A. Rayneii Andreychuk, Chairman of the Standing
Senate Committee on Aboriginai Peopies. presented the
toiiowing report:

THIRD REPORT 0F SPECIAL SENATE COMMITTEE PRESENTED

Wednesday, December 13, 1995

Hon. Finlay MacDonald, Chairman of the Speciai Senate
Committee on Pearson Airport Agreements, presented the
foiiowing report:

The Standing Senate Committee on Aboriginai Peoples
has the honour to present its
TENTH REPORT

Wednesday. December 13, 1995
The Special Committee of' the Senate on the Pearson
Airport Agreements has the honour to present its
THIRD REPORT
Your committee. which was authorized by the Senate on
May 4. 1995 to examine and report upon ail matters
concerning the policies and negotiations ieading up to. and
inciuding, the agreements respecting the redeveiopment and
operation of' Terminais 1 and 2 at Lester B. Pearson
International Airport and the circumstances reiating to the
cancellation thereol. has. in obedience to its Order of
Reference, examined the said subject and now tables its
report with the foilowing observations.
Aithough your committee is satisfied that ail essentiai
elements of this inquiry have been produced and subjected
to public scrutiny, it reserves the right to hoid further
hearings if additionai relevant evidence emerges. It has
therefore adJourned sine die.
Your committee notes that whiie it was granted a budget
of $298.000. it has completed ils study under budget. A full
accounting of expenses wiii be given at a later time pursuant
to Rule 105.
Respectfuiiy submitted.
FINLAY MACDONALD
Ch'airinan

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourabie senators. when shail this
report be taken into consideration?

Your committee. to which was referred the Bill C-107,
An Act respecting the establishment of the British Columbia
Treaty Commission. has, in obedience to the Order of'
Reference of Wednesday. December 6. 1995, exarnined the
said Bill and now reports the saine without amendment.
Respectfuiiy submitted,
A. RAYNELL ANDREYCHUK
Chairnian

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourabie senators. when shail this
bill be read the third time?
On motion of Senator Graham. bill piaced on the Orders of the
day for thîrd reading at the next sitting of the Senate.

SMAI I BUSINESS LOANS ACT
BILI, TO AMEND-FIRST READING

The Hon. the Speaker informed the Senate that a message
had been received from the House of Commons with Bill C-99,
to amend the SmaIl Business Loans Act.
Bill read first lime.

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourabie senators. when shahl this
bill be read the second time?
0 (1I o

On motion of' Senator Graham, with leave of the Senate and
notwithstanding ruhe 57(1 )ffl. bill piaced on the Orders of' the
Day for second reading ai the nexi sitting oh the Senate.

December 13, 1995

SENATE DEBATES
CRIMINAL CODE

BILL TO AMEND

QUESTION PERIOD

FIRST READING

Hon. Anne C. Cools presented Bill S-15, to amend the
Criminal Code of Canada (plea bargaining).
Bill read first time.
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, when shall this
bill be read the second time?
On motion of Senator Cools. bill placed on the Orders of the
Day for second reading on Tuesday, December 19, 1995.
NATIONAL PROTECTED AREAS STRATEGY
ENERGY. THE ENVIRONMENT AND NATURAL RESOURCESCOMMI1TEE AUTHORIZED TO EXTEND DATE 0F FINAL REPORT

Hon. Eric Arthur Berntson (Deputy Leader of the
Opposition), for Senator Carney, pursuant to notice of
December 12, 1995, moved:
That, notwithstanding the order of Reference adopted by
the Senate on Wednesday, April 27. 1994, the Standing
Senate Committee on Energy, the Environment and Natural
Resources, which was authorizerd to undertake a study of
the policy options available to the govemnment to complet
the network of pristine areas that represent Canada's natural
regions and the creation of a national protected areas
strategy and to make recommendations thereon, have
power to present its final report no later than Sunday,
March 31, 1996, and
That, notwithstanding the usual practices, if the Senate is
not sitting when the report of the committee is completed,
the committee shahl deposit its report with the Clerk of the
Senate and the said report shall thereupon be deemned to
have been tabled in the chamber.
Motion agreed to.
FOREIGN AFFAIRS
COMMI1TEE AUTHORIZED TO MEET
DURING SITTING 0F THE SENATE

Hon. John B. Stewart, with leave of the Senate and
notwithstanding rule 58(l)(a), moved:
That the Standing Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs
have the power to sit at 3:15 in the afternoon today,
Wednesday, December 13, 1995, even though the Senate
may then be sitting, and that Rule 95(4) be suspended in
relation thereto.
Motion agreed to.

2487
2487

SENATE DEBATES

December 13, 1995

JUSTICE
SALE 0F AIRBUS AIRCRAFT TO AIR CANADA-ALLEGED
CONSPIRACY TO DEFRAUD FEDERAL GOVERNMENT-APPROACH
TO SWISS GOVERNMENT FOR INFORMATION-AUTHORITY FOR
PROCEDURE FOLLOWED-GOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. David Tkachuk: Honourable senators, I have a question
concerning the letter sent to the Swiss government inquiring
about Swiss bank accounts in the Airbus situation. 1 want to
preface my remarks by saying that, in this country, in order for
the police to get into the bank account of a citizen, they would
need a search warrant. In other words, they would have to ask a
judge for permission. and evidence would need to be given to
that judge before the police could proceed.
In respect of a letter being sent to the Government of
Switzerland asking for access to a citizen's bank account, it
would be necesary to follow some procedure, such as that under
the Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters Act. or under a
treaty between Canada and Switzerland, outlining how a
Canadian citizen can protect his right to privacy.
I want to know under what authority, act or treaty the federal
government acted in sending the letter to the Government of
Switzerland regarding the alleged bank accounts of
Mr. Mulroney and Mr. Moores.
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, I am sure that 1 have answered before in
this house that there was a clear procedure followed on the
question of the letter that was prepared within the Department of
Justice, on the request of the RCMP, addressed to the Swiss
government. This saine procedure has been followed on many
previous occasions.
Although it seems to have occurred in this case. for whatever
reason, no one can recaîl that there has ever been a breach of
confidentiality in other cases in the past. The Swiss authorities
have been very respectful of that confidentiality, and it has been
very much a part of the form of correspondence in this case.
I believe there is a treaty with Switzerland - 1 think it goes
back to 1993 - as to the exchange of this kind of
correspondence.
Senator Tkachuk: Perhaps the honourable leader could
respond to my question. The point I was attempting to make was
that, in order to get into a bank account or an alleged bank
account in Canada, one must obtain the permission of a judge. If
the RCMP wants to get into a bank account, the government has
said that there are lots of these kinds of actions or inquiries, that
this kind of thing happens aIl the time; that since it is secret.
therefore it can happen. I do not think that. just because it is
secret. it can happen.

What is the procedure normaiiy foiiowed in these cases? Do
the police need some kind of evidence before they can go on
hunting and fishing expeditions into the personai affairs of
Canadian citizens? What evidence was brought forward? Who
authorized that evidence? Was it an officiai or a deputy? Who is
named in the treaty as authorizing that this inquiry couid proceed
and that letter be written? That is what 1 should like to know.

Senator Fairbairn: Honourabie senators, with respect to that
specitic part of my honourable friend's question. I wiii inquire as
te0 what the answer is, and whether 1 can give it to hlm.
I would repeat to my honourable friend that 1 know he ks
making a case for how things may be donc in Canada.
',(30

I have been reiating 10 him and to other senators for many days
now that there is a process which has been used repeatedly in the
past. I will not argue the efficacy of that process with my
honourabie friend. I arn sirnpiy stating that there is a process
whereby these communications are transmitted to Switzeriand. I
am advised that. in this case. the same process was foilowed as
has been foiiowed in other instances when this kind of' assistance
was sought from Switzeriand.

Senator Tkachuk: Honourable senators. I wiil try to end rny
queries on this iast question. The leader has toid me and other
honourable senators that there is a process. 1 want to know what
the process is. because I think it is important that citizens of the
country know how they are protected under that process when
actions are taken by the police and the state. and when letters are
sent tu foreign governments asking for information about them.
Please. therefore, do not tel! me that there is a process; expiain
to me what the process is. Was the same process toiiowed in the
case of' the Airbus inquiries to Switzerland as was followed in
cases involving other citizens of Canada? If we do flot need any
evidence te, inquire about such things. maybe we should change
the process. I just want to know what the process is.

Senator Fairbairn: Honourabie senators. I have expiained
what the process is.

whom do they ask permission? Does the secretary iii the RCMP
sergeant's office say. "Gee, I wouid like to write a letter to
Switzeriand and inquire about Senator Gustafson," or is there
somne process within the police department? Does some
bureaucrat who is in charge of the cops have to authorize the
request? Does il then tlow to the Department of Justice'? Do they
write to the clerk in Saskatoon, or do they ask the deputy, the
minister or some director in charge? Someone must be consuited.
It is not good enough to say that a letter was sent to the
Department of Justice which then sends a ietter to Switzeriand.
Who sends the letter and te, whom? Who signs it off? Where does
it go? Who couriers it over there? Who has access to it? What
happens te0it then? It is not good enough to say it goes from one
department to the other. 1 want to know the process. 1 want to
know the process whereby we protect Canadian people in such
instances.

Some Hon. Senators: Hear. hear!
Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators. I appreciate my
friend's question, as 1 have appreciated bis rhetoric and
questioning before the Pearson inquiry committee.
Senator Berntson: What bas that t0 do with it?

Senator Fairbairn: I arn saying that Senator Tkachuk is in
good form today. He is in predictabie form. It is a very
invigorating performance 10 witness-, 1 simply make the
comment.
My honourabie friend bas asked a myriad of very specific
questions. the answers to which I am not sure 1 can provide.
partiy because a court case is in progress.

Sonne Hon. Senators: Oh! Oh!
Senator Fairbairn: Honourabie senators. there is a matter
before the courts, and I certainiy wouid not be respecting my
responsibiiities if I were 10 say anything that would in any way
affect or impede that process. That is ail I arn saying.
I wiii take my honourable friend's series of questions as notice
and see what kind of answers I can provide.

Senator Berntson: No. you have not.
Senator Fairbairn: The RCMP. in the course of ils inquiries.
seeks assistance from the Department of Justice to transmit.
governmcnt to government - in this case to Switzerland - a
request for assistance. The process foliowed in this case is the
same as the process that has been foliowed in other cases.

SALE 0F AIRBUS AIRCRAFT TO AIR CANADA-ALLEGED
CONSPIRACY TO DEFRAUD FEDERAL GOVERNMENT-STAGE OF
TREATY WITH SWITZERLAND AT TIME 0F
REQUEST UUVERNMENT POSITION

My honourabie friend shakes his head. I can only give him the
information that 1 have been given. The information I have is that
this procedure is exactiy the same procedure as has been
foiiowed in other cases.

Hon. R. James Balfour: Honourable senators, my question is
also 10 the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is il truc that
the treaty 10 which rny honourabie friend referred was not
actuaiiy signed between the governments of Switzerland and
Canada until sorne two months after the letter in question was
dispatched?

Senator Tkachuk: Honourabie senators. I must break mny own
ruie here and ask another question. This is very frustrating. From

Honourable senators. 1 wiii check that information.

1Senatoi-Tkacliuk1

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):

December 13, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

Senator Balfour: Is my honourable friend saying she does not
know whether the treaty was in force when the letter in question
was dispatched?

2489

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, I am absolutely prepared to stand in this
place and say it was not politically motivated.

Senator Olson: Ask Mulroney. He would know.

Senator Fairbairn: I am aware that there is a treaty, and I will
check on Senator Balfour's question.
Senator Balfour: Honourable senators, I am nonplussed to
learn that the Leader of the Government in the Senate was not
aware that this agreement was not actually signed until some two
months after the letter in question was dispatched. I would ask
her to either explain her Jack of knowledge or enlighten this
chamber.
Senator St. Germain: Or resign from cabinet.
Senator Balfour: Are you asking a question, Senator Olson?
Senator Olson: Yes.
Senator Balfour: Would you stand in your place? I will yield.
Senator Olson: I cannot ask you a question.
Some Hon. Senators: Stand up!
Senator Olson: It is against the rules.
Senator Balfour: I will rephrase the question. Does my
honourable friend not distinguish between civil proceedings,
such as have been launched in connection with this Airbus
matter, and criminal proceedings when seeking a reason why
facts cannot be disclosed in this chamber?
Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators, I am in no position
to give a legal opinion. I have been trying, as best I can, to gather
information to convey to this house. I want to be sure that the
information that I gather is as complete as it can be. I am very
respectful of my honourable friend's question. I wish to be able
to give him a precise answer, and I shall do so to the best of my
ability.
SALE OF AIRBUS AIRCRAFT TO AIR CANADA-ALLEGED
CONSPIRACY TO DEFRAUD FEDERAL GOVERNMENT-MOTIVATION
OF MINISTER IN INSTITUTING INQUIRIES

Hon. Gerry St. Germain: Honourable senators, my question
is to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. As we consider
how the Minister of Justice operates and signs warrants that
virtually challenge the Constitution on several pieces of
legislation, whether it be Bill C-18, C-68, C-22 or others, and in
view of this overambitious minister's contradictory statements as
to when he received information and to whom it was given, is the
minister prepared to stand in this place and say this process is not
politically motivated or a fishing trip?

COMMUNICATIONS
RADIO CANADA INTERNATIONAL-FUTURE PROSPECTS FOR
CONTINUANCE-REPORT OF SENATE COMMITTEE ON CONTINUED
FUNDING-GOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. Janis Johnson: Honourable senators, like many other
Canadians, I am very upset about the demise of Radio Canada
International. My colleague Senator Oliver raised the issue
yesterday, and I am sure we have all read the articles in the
papers today regarding the cuts at RCI. One hundred and twenty
employees have received notice that the service will be closing
on March 31. Radio Canada International's service is broadcast
primarily on short wave in eight languages to more than 126
countries. It has been around for approximately 50 years now. I
believe it has played an important role in delivering Canadian
news abroad.
Will the Leader of the Government in the Senate tell us: What
is the government's position on the cuts announced yesterday? Is
it the federal government's position that Canada does not need an
international service like the one provided by RCI? Does the
governrment not have a responsibility to safeguard this service
which promotes Canada abroad?

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, I sympathize with my honourable friend's
point of view. The announcement in this matter was made
yesterday afternoon. It has been the position of the government
that it is the responsibility of the Canadian Broadcasting
Corporation to decide the future of this international service.
As the honourable senator knows, the previous government
transferred part of the funding responsibility for this service to
the Department of Foreign Affairs in order to help maintain the
service. Over the past year, however, there has been a fairly rigid
regime of reductions and cutbacks. The Department of Foreign
Affairs bas found that it does not have the funding necessary to
continue its contribution to this service, and makes that comment
with great regret. Therefore, the CBC itself, in its budget
reductions, has chosen this particular route.
Hon. Eric Arthur Berntson (Deputy Leader of the
Opposition): Honourable senators, who reduced their budget?
Senator Fairbairn: This decision has come from the CBC. I
cannot offer my friend any comfort today that the Foreign Affairs
Department is in any position to pick up the cost of the service.

Senator Johnson: Honourable senators, I ask the leader to
appeal to her colleagues. and make them aware that the Standing
Senate Committee on Transport and Communications held
hearings on this issue. We studied the matter and recommended
in our report tabled last spring that funding for RCI be continued.
It was a unanimous report of the Transport and Communications
Committee.
I should like to have some assurance from the Leader of the
Government in the Senate that she will bring this report to the
attention of the ministers in cabinet. The work that bas been done
by the members of our committee regarding Radio Canada
International was extensive. We certainly had a great deal to
contribute to this discussion. Will the Leader of the Govemment
in the Senate make a commitment to me to pass this information
along to her government so that they can at least review the
situation perhaps one last time?
Senator Fairbairn: I can make that commitment to Senator
Johnson and, if she has the report handy, I would be pleased to
make that commitment, as I did yesterday in answer to questions
from my friend Senator Prud'homme. I did convey the concern
expressed by Senator Prud'homme and others yesterday in this
chamber. I will be happy to pass on the Senate committee's
report and its conclusions to my colleagues.
Hon. Marcel Prud'Homme: Honourable senators, I am glad
that Senator Johnson asked that question. I was also on my feet
to ask the minister if my message of yesterday had been
conveyed, and I am glad to hear that it has been conveyed.
I should like to emphasize that, even though it is the CBC's
business to do what it wants with Radio Canada International, I
think that the future of Radio Canada International is too
important an issue to be left to the CBC. 1 am positive that it is a
political question which should be decided at the political level,
for the political interests of Canada. That, in my humble
estimation. should precede the mandate of the CBC to decide
whether or not to cut the funding for that service.
Since yesterday, we have been inundated - and very
spontaneously, which is a little different from the gun control
representation - with hundreds of thousands of calls from very
genuine, unorganized groups of people who got in touch with me
as soon as they learned of my interest and my question to you.
I wish to re-emphasize that this is not a partisan matter. This is
very important.
[Translation]

He would know, however, that his is not the only voice out there,
because there is no question that this is a very respected and
popular service of long standing in this country.
I wish I were able to give a different answer than I have given
to him and to Senator Johnson. However I will certainly transmit
today's Hansard and the report of the committee to my
colleagues so that they will have that information before them as
well.
HUMAN RIGHTS
VISIT OF FEDERAL COMMISSIONER TO CHINA-REMARKS

REPORTED IN MEDIA-GOVERNMENT POSITION
Hon. Consiglio Di Nino: Honourable senators. my question is
also for the minister. In The Globe and Mail of November 29,
there was an article about Mr. Yalden's visit to China. He is
quoted as having said that he:
"...didn't come all the way out here to express misgivings
about shortcomings. I'm not looking for some negative
things to say."
When asked if he would raise the issue of human rights abuses
with the Chinese, he is quoted as having said:
"I don't suppose I'd take kindly if some Chinese visitor
would start asking me about illegal abortions, for that
matter, and whether (Dr. Henry) Morgentaler ought to be
doing what he's doing."
Honourable senators, since I have expressed my concerns
about human rights abuses in China in the past, perhaps the
Leader of the Government in the Senate could tell us if
Mr. Yalden is expressing government positions in these matters?
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, I presume that Senator Di Nino is referring
to Mr. Max Yalden, who is the head of the Human Rights
Commission. This was a visit of his own to China. However, I
would be pleased to see Mr. Yalden's comments.
My honourable friend knows - because many senators in this
house have exchanged views on this issue over the last many
months - what the Prime Minister, the Foreign Affairs Minister
and others have conveyed to the Chinese. I can speak only on
behalf of my government colleagues. I would need to take a look
at Mr. Yalden's remarks before responding to my honourable
friend.

This is of great significance for the power and glory of
Canada. It is of the utmost importance that nothing be spared to
save this institution which has served Canada well.

Senator Di Nino: Obviously, it will be seen as a position of
the government. I think that should be clarified.

[English]

Could the minister obtain for us some report. if possible, of
Mr. Yalden's visit and what results from such activity once he
returns?

Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators. I take my
honourable friend's representation seriously, as I did yesterday.

Senator Fairbairn: I will do my best, Senator Di Nino.

SENATE DEBATES

December 13, 1995

FURTHER INCARCERATION OF CHINESE
DISSIDENT-GOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. Noël A. Kinsella: Honourable senators, if there is
timidity in the position of the Chief Commissioner of the
Canadian Human Rights Commission with respect to human
rights abuses in China, could the minister inform this house as to
the position of the Government of Canada with respect to the
incarceration for another 15 years of Mr. Wei Jingsheng?
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, I will seek information on my friend's
question.
QUEBEC
DISTINCT SOCIETY MOTION-LEGAL OPINION SOUGHT ON
INTERPRETATION OF WORDING-GOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. A. Raynell Andreychuk: Honourable senators, I should
like to ask the Honourable Leader of the Government in the
Senate a series of questions arising out of the distinct society
motion.
I do not wish to debate the distinct society issue, but contained
in the resolution are the words "people of Quebec." I am sure
that Senator MacEachen, for one in this chamber, will be aware
of the fact that, internationally, we have scrupulously avoided the
use of the words "people" or "peoples" in any sense, except
when we refer to nations. In fact, bureaucrats, parliamentary
delegations and others have been given advice over the years that
we not use the words "people" or "peoples" and, in particular,
within the International Labour Organization and the Human
Rights Commission, that we not use this phrase because it leads
to self-determination in the international law, practice, and
international diplomacy fields.

2491

Senator Andreychuk: Honourable senators, would the
minister also include in the answer whether Department of
Justice lawyers and/or lawyers within the Department of Foreign
Affairs have given that opinion? It is my understanding that some
officials have indicated that this portion was included
inadvertently, and that lawyers were not consulted on this issue.
Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators, my honourable
friend would know that I cannot give to this house legal opinions
given by the law officers of the Crown to the government.
However, I have taken note of the honourable senator's
questions, and I will seek to obtain whatever clarification I can
for her.
Senator Andreychuk: Part of my concern is that it seems
there bas been quite a change, perhaps not in policy but in
procedure, in the Department of Justice. In fact, the certificate
that any particular act or piece of legislation complies with the
Charter of Rights and Freedoms seems to be given rather freely
with the comment that if we do not comply, citizens can take us
to court. I am very concerned because the Department of Justice
has a unique responsibility to each and every citizen to ensure
that the Charter of Rights is upheld, as they uphold other laws.
Senator Fairbairn: I will certainly pursue my friend's
question, but I would suggest to her that there would be no
statement or documents put forward by the Department of Justice
that would in any way impede the protection of Canadian
citizens under the Charter.
[Translation]

Hon. Jean-Claude Rivest: Honourable senators, in light of
the international dimension of the matter raised by Senator
Andreychuk, could the Leader of the Government ask the
Department of Justice to find examples in other legal or
constitutional texts, in our constitutional law or our statutes, of
the expression "aboriginal people" or even "Acadian people?"

0 (141<>)

[English]

In light of that policy, could the honourable senator advise me
whether the international lawyers in the Department of Justice
were asked for their comments? Were the lawyers in the
Department of Foreign Affairs consulted as to the use of these
words and the implications that they may have? Further, is the
government concerned, or has it made a determination that the
phrase "people of Quebec" in no way diminishes the rights of the
aboriginal people in the Province of Quebec? Finally, does the
govemment believe that this proposal could, in fact, lead to an
opening of recognition by other countries of Quebec's desire for
self-determination?
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, this question will require inquiries on my
part, except for one part of it.
I mentioned in my speech of last week that nothing in this
resolution would detract in any way from the rights of the
aboriginal people and the protection of their interests within the
Constitution, and that very much includes their inherent rights.

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, I will add my honourable friend's question
to the list.
AGRICULTURE
WESTERN GRAIN MARKETING-POSSIBILITY OF NATIONAL
PLEBISCITE-GOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. Leonard J. Gustafson: Honourable senators, my
question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate is with
regard to a grain marketing plebiscite.
As you know, the Province of Alberta held a plebiscite on
whether there should be a choice in the marketing of grain, and
the farmers of Alberta voted two to one in favour of choice. On
May 13, 1993, in response to a question about barley marketing,
the Prime Minister of Canada said that farmers should be
consulted through a plebiscite.

Is it the intention of the Minister of Agriculture and the
govemment to honour the promise that was made by the Prime
Minister of Canada over two years ago, on May 13, 1993?

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, we are aware of the plebiscite in the
Province of Alberta, and the views and opinions of Alberta
farmers are very important to the process that is currently under
way in the Department of Agriculture.
My honourable friend will also know that this issue stretches
beyond provincial boundaries in Western Canada. For that
reason, the whole future of the marketing system is under debate,
not just in Alberta but throughout the west. As a result, the
govemment has launched the Western Grain Marketing Panel to
review the entire process. That panel is doing its job. The
plebiscite which took place in Alberta will be a part of that
review process. I cannot tell my honourable friend when that
process is scheduled to be completed and reported upon, but I
will try to find out for him.
Senator Gustafson: Honourable senators, is the honourable
leader aware of the urgency of this issue? Honourable senators
will know that farmers have been taking grain across the border
into the United States. In fact, one of the senators from the
United States tried to bring grain into Canada, accompanied by a
farmer at Estevan and was turned back. A number of truckloads
of grain have crossed the border going the other way. There is a
great deal of uncertainty here. Does the leader not realize that it
is important that a solution be found to this difficult situation?
Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators, I am aware of that. I
am aware that there are very strong views on this issue. I am
aware also of the strength of the views contrary to the plebiscite
held in Alberta. For many years, this matter has been more than
a prickly issue in Western Canada; it is a fundamental issue. As
technology changes and different regimes are put in place, it
becomes even more complicated.
It is for that reason that the current process of review is under
way. It will not be just a process carried out in boardrooms. but
in town hall meetings throughout the west. The question itself
has caused some controversy in my province, and this broader
process will involve the farmers. to hear what they have to say.
My colleague the Minister of Agriculture will want this
process completed as expeditiously as possible. There are huge
issues at stake here, including the one perspective of dual
marketing and the other perspective of improving but still
protecting the entity of the Canadian Wheat Board for the benefit
of farmers. It is definitely not an issue to be taken lightly, as my
friend well knows, and the minister is trying to gather the
broadest set of opinions that he can. We will then have the
tremendous responsibility of coming to a conclusion in the
months ahead.
Senator Gustafson: Honourable senators. I am concerned
about what is happening with a number of issues relating to
agriculture. that they all seem to be ending up before panels. with

1 Senator Gustalson

1

no decisions being taken. It is my view that it is time the
government took some responsibility and made some decisions
in the best interests of farmers. We cannot continue to have blue.
red and yellow ribbon committees. We are being "committeed"
and "panelled" to death, but no decisions are being taken. That is
not just my own view; it is what I am hearing from farm groups
and others across the country.
{ 1420(

Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators, the best interests of
farmers is the goal that is being pursued by this Minister of
Agriculture. While one can become impatient, perhaps, with
panel reviews, on the other hand an issue such as this, which
involves access to a consultation process, is important in itself,
even though it may take a little bit longer.
I cannot emphasize enough to my honourable friend the
importance given to this particular issue by the Minister of
Agriculture. He is hoping to be able to make a decision.
However, he wants to be in the position of having a broadly
based measure of opinion throughout the prairies before he
makes such a decision.

COMMUNICATIONS
RADIO CANADA INTERNATIONAL-POSSIBILITY OF ALTERNATIVE
FUNDING-GOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. Raymond J. Perrault: Honourable senators, I am afraid
that today I am not speaking with my usual vigour because of a
bad case of laryngitis. It is a bit like a baseball pitcher developing
a sore arm - you cannot work at your profession.
I should like to identify myself with the remarks made
previously by honourable senators regarding Radio Canada
International. An all-party recommendation of a few months ago
suggested that Radio Canada International is doing excellent
work, that it should be allowed to carry on and be provided with
the necessary funds to do so. However, budget cutbacks are such
that the CBC has had to reduce its commitment to RCI.
My question relates to the future of this valuable agency. This
is not the time for Canada to get out of the international
communications battle. It is a time when all our trading partners
are communicating as never before. There are 24-hour news
channels in Britain. Italy and Spain. The distinguished Leader of
the Opposition is aware of that revolution, since he has his own
satellite dish.
At a time of incredible global revolution in techniques such as
digitalization and new methods of transmitting signals from one
nation to the other, this is not the time for us to leave the scene.
I wish to ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate if
consideration can be given to alternative suggestions and other
ideas to maintain RCI's viability. Of all countries, there is now a
degree of privatization in the Russian short wave service. Some
of you. no doubt. have listened to Radio Moscow.

December 13, 1995

December13,
1995SENATE
DEBATES

Hon. Pat Carney: Is this a question?

ORDERS 0F THE DAY

Senator Perrault: Yes, it is a question. 1 arn sorry that
Senator Carney seems so littie interested in international trade
and relations.
Senator Carney: I arn fascinated by your question.
Senator Perrault: For example, the other day it was startling
to, hear a commercial on Radio Moscow concerning the Odessa
steel factory. The commercial stated that the steel beams buiît in
Odessa have a tensile strength equivalent to the best steel beamns
in the world. A pbone number was provided for further
information.
Is there a possibility tbat we can find some alternative funding
for Radio Canada International - perhaps some of it in the
private sector? What about the major trading entities in Canada
providing some partial subsidization for RCI - an agency which
is doing this country a great deal of good?
My question goes beyond assuring that Radio Canada
International goes out with a bang, rather than a whimper.
Beyond that, 1 would like to see it made sustainable so that it is
possible for the agency to, survive. A number of people in that
organization have been striving gallantly for months to keep the
entity alive. Lt bas done great communications work for us. Let
us hope that there are some alternatives.
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, Senator Perrault witb laryngitis still bas a
stronger voice than almost anyone I know.
1 have listened to the honourable senator's question about
alternative funding. I will take the suggestion, along with the
otber ones that have been made in this bouse. to, the appropriate
place. I now have the report from Senator Johnson. I will
transmit tbe views of senators on botb sides of tbis house to, my
colleagues in cabinet as quickly as I can.
Senator Carney: Honourable senators, I sbould like to add to
Senator Perrault's suggestion with a specific question of my own.
Could the Leader of the Govemnment look at the suggestion of
the bonourable senator that the Department of Foreign Affairs
help fund tbe sbort wave system, beyond wbatever contributions
they may now be making?
Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators, I will look into that
matter as welI.
ANSWER TO ORDER PAPER QUESTION TABLED
CANADA POST CORPORATION-REVIEW BY PRICE WATERHOUSE
0F CONTRACTS IN SYDNEY, NOVA SCOTIAREOUEST FOR PARTICULARS

Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government) tabled tbe answer to Question No. 102-by
Senator Forrestaîl.

2493
29

AUDITOR GENERAL ACT
BILL TO AMEND-THIRD READING

Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government) moved third reading of Bill C-83, to amend the
Auditor General Act.
Motion agreed to and bill read tbird time and passed.
[Translation]l

EMPLOYMENT EQUITY BILL
THIRD READING

Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government) moved third reading of Bill C-64, respecting
employment equity.
Hon. Thérèse Lavoie-Roux: Honourable senators, 1 would
simply like to say a few words at the third reading stage of
Bill C-64. Consideration of this bill bas probably taken too long.

As a preamble, I would point out that this kind of tbing
happens aIl too often. This bill was tabled in tbe House of
Commons in the faîl of 1994, but we did not get it until
October 1995. By then, there was a pressing need to pass the bill.
This is a valid bill. Everyone agrees on the principle of the bill.
When the time came to, put forward a valid amendment - that
everyone, including Minister Axworthy, supported - 1 could not
do so three weeks ago because there was not enougb time. Tbe
House was about to adjourn. Every time they do not want a bill
to be sent back to, the House of Commons with an amendment as bappened this faîl - they threaten to adjourn tbe House. We
in the Senate cannot work like this.
Minister Axwortby wrote me that he had heard of my putting
forward a very valid and articulate amendment. Lt was very nice
of him. He said tbat if we sent tbe bill back to, the House. he was
willing to, ask tbe cabinet and tben the House of Commons to
include an amendment in Bill C-64. This amendment would
apply to, botb Hou ses and to, the Library of Parliament, as it does
to employers; in the federal public service and the private sector.
They will have to comply witb the provisions of the bill in
achieving equality in the workplace.
Tbis amendment was first proposed in October by Senator
Jobnson. The minister agreed to, include it in the bill. He came to
see us tbis week. He made a real commitment to tbe committee
concerning ibis amendment.

At any rate. because the minister made that commitment, we
decided not to move an amendment, which would have forced
the Senate to send the bill back to the House of Commons. Given
the goodwill demonstrated by the minister and the commitment
he made concerning this amendment as well as the other two that
were put forward. one by Senator Kinsella. on which he may
want to elaborate. and the other by Senator Cochrane, on which
she may also want to elaborate. these amendments could be
entertained by the minister. then submitted to cabinet and
eventually included in the legisiation.

Senator Bonneli: What about the chairman?
Senator Johnson: We did it despite the chairman. We came to
an agreement with Senator Bosa in the chair.
I arn very pleased to add to my colleague's rernarks. I did
respond to Senator Losier-Cool when she introduced the bill on
behaîf of the government, so. in very succinct terms, I should like
to, put exactly what has evolved.

The minister told us that. by March 1, 1996, amendments
would be submitted to cabinet to ensure that the Act respecting
employment equity also applies to parliamentary employers. It
was totally inexplicable that this had not been provided for by the
bill aIl along. Problerns were expected because of the tact that
outside pressure could be brought to, bear on both Houses.

My colleague Senator Lavoie-Roux has given you the history.
We in the committee have had a lot of fun and games just trying
to corne to terms with the amendments. after concluding that we
aIl agreed with the principle. As honourable senators know. we
did corne to, the conclusion that we would recornmend passage
without arnendment. However. there are some caveats. and they
include several things to which sorne honourable senators have
already reterred.

The arnendment was prepared in consultation with the Senate's
legal counsel. It provides for rnechanisrns safeguarding the house
against any such interference. The rninister also said that he
would urge the Standing Senate Cornrnttee on InternaI
Economy, Budgets and Administration and the Board of Internai
Econorny of the House of Commons to develop the rnechanisrns
and procedures necessary to implement the principles of
ernployrnent equity contained in Bill C-64, previous to rnaking
the change he plans to make in March.

When the work was undertaken, I wanted to include
parliamentary employers under Bill C-64. That was rny only
maljor recommendation when I first spoke on this legisiation.
That recomrnendation turned into an amendrnent which led to
other arnendrnents as we continued to study the bill. 1 think we
did a very good job of coming up with some other
recornmendations to improve the legislation.

*

(140

I will not elaborate on the other two arnendrnents. After the
minister made this tirm cornritrnent before the Standing Senate
Committee on Social Affaîrs. Science and Technology, we
Conservative senators decided that we had achîeved what we had
set out to do. We had no reason to doubt the rninister's good
faith. That is what mattered to us. We decided not to, move an
amendrnent, but rather to report on these particular points that the
minister had raised. We shaîl wait and see how things turn out.
There is no doubt that the minister will carry out his
commitment in March. In the meantime. botlh this place and the
other place will have prepared to implement the legisiation.
I regret that needless hassle has to, be caused for lack of time.
Had it flot been for the vigilance of my two colleagues Senator
Kinsella and Senator Cochrane. the bill would not have corne this
far.
Bill C-64 deals with the whole issue ot defining the concepts
of "visible minorities" and '-persons with disabilities.** It would
flot have been complete. even if we set aside the amendment I
had moved to begin with. Bills like this one are drafted too
hastily. It is difficult to explain how such deficiencies can creep
into bills. We have found an example regarding the definition of
.,visible minorities" and "persons with disabilities."
[En glisli]
Hon. Janis Johnson: Honourable senators. 1 want to thank my
colleagues on the committee who helped us with Bill C-64.

1 Senalor LU\

oie -Roux,\

As you know. we heard from a number of witnesses, many of
whorn indicated their support for the proposaI to, have this bill
apply to Parliament. specifically the House of' Commons. the
Senate and the library as employers.
Yesterday rnorning. the minister appeared before us for the
second time to talk about the bill. During his test inony. he
agreed there would be some benefit to including Parliament
employers under the Employment Equity Act. In his letter to
Senator Lavoie-Roux on Decernber 4 regarding our proposed
amendrnents. he also stated that we had developed a sound and
innovative legislative proposaI for extending coverage of
Bill C-64 to include the staff of Parliarnent.
The very fact that he appeared before us twice and wrote this
letter to Senator Lavoie-Roux is some indication of how we have
worked together to try to make this very positive legislation.
rather than just opposing it and presenting negative arnendrnents.
Also. the rninister stated very clearly at yesterday's meeting
that he supports our amendments to include Parliament. Last
month, Max Yalden, the Commissioner of the Canadian Human
Rights Commission, appeared and said that, in his view, the
House of Commons and the Senate should be included. and that
the law should apply to, the two bodies.
Honourable senators. when Robert Marîeau. the Clerk of the
House of' Commons. appeared before the committee, he was
asked if it would make a différence to the pursuit of the principle
of employment equity if the House of Commons was included
under the bill. Mr. Marleau responded that it would make a lot of
difference to the principle of employment equity awareness in
the House ot Commons. and that there would be a net benetit.

December 13, 1995

December 13, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

SENATE DEBATES

The testimony from witnesses before both the Senate and
House standing committees reviewing this legislation indicates to
me that Bill C-64 should apply to Parliament as employers.
I was delighted that my recommendation became an
amendment, that it provoked this further discussion and that,
because of it, the Social Affairs Committee took a closer look at
the issue of including Parliament. Based on Mr. Axworthy's
words and commitments yesterday, the bill will be reported
without amendment, but with commitments which will, in time,
become part of the legislation. Number one, by March 1,
Mr. Axworthy will propose amendments to cabinet to extend
coverage of the Employment Equity Act to parliamentary
employers. Number two, the minister will write letters to both
the Standing Committee on Internai Economy, Budgets and
Administration in the Senate and the House of Commons Board
of Internal Economy, urging them to establish the mechanisms
and policies needed to implement the principles of employment
equity as envisioned in Bill C-64. Number three, the minister
made the commitment that guidelines and communications
materials will be developed in consultation with my colleague
Senator Kinsella and other concerned committee members,
stakeholders and the Department of Canadian Heritage in
relation to the proposed definition of "members of visible
minorities."
0

(1440)

Honourable senators, given the commitments made by the
Minister of Human Resources Development, I feel that Bill C-64,
a piece of legislation which clearly improves the existing
Employment Equity Act, should be passed. I know and expect
that the minister, being a good Manitoban, will keep his
commitments and that parliamentary employers will soon fall
under the act.
Thank you, honourable senators, for your cooperation on this
important piece of legislation.
Hon. Noël A. Kinsella: Honourable senators, Bill C-64, now
in debate at third reading, is an affirmative action piece of
legislation which, as you know, is provided for under
section 15(2) of our Charter of Rights and Freedoms. This
employment equity bill rests upon sound constitutional ground.
As Senator Johnson and Senator Losier-Cool explained to you
during second reading debate, the principle is supported by
members on both sides of this chamber. In committee,
unanimous agreement on the principle of the bill continued, but
there certainly was no unanimous agreement on the quality of the
bill. It is a very poor piece of drafting, in my judgment. That
poor drafting speaks directly to a number of serious issues with
which this Parliament, in particular, seems to be faced. In terms
of quality control, it is my opinion that the examination of
legislation in the committees of the other place is the worst it has
ever been in the past 35 years. I am not too sure why that is the
case. As some would suggest, perhaps it speaks to the
composition of the opposition in the other place. Perhaps they are

2495
2495

not providing for the kind of critical examination for which an
opposition is responsible in examining legislation. The
opposition is not always simply to oppose for opposition's sake.
Rather, in the epistemological sense, they must attempt to find
the best drafted legislation that will serve the public interest of
Canadians. We have identified imperfections and sometimes
even contradictions in other bills but, due to a variety of
pressures, we have given the nod and let them pass.
Honourable senators, I am not excited about the content of the
report that we have received. Even though we have identified
flaws in this piece of legislation, a recommendation bas been
adopted, and the Senate bas decided to accept the report of the
Standing Senate Committee on Social Affairs, Science and
Technology.
Part of the poor work on the drafting of this bill relates to one
of the problems that was identified, namely, the definition of
"visible minorities" in that act. This could have been obviated
had the govemment done what it bas been promising it would do
for the past two years - that is, set up the Race Relations
Foundation. It has yet to do it. This foundation was established
by legislation brought forward by the previous government. The
legislation bas been sitting there, but no action bas been taken to
implement it. Here is an example of where the government could
have used the expert knowledge of people who would have been
working with the Race Relations Foundation. Such experts could
have helped the government understand in contemporary terms
why race is not accepted in any quarter as a scientific concept,
and why it was so offensive to see "race" as part of the definition
of "visible minorities." Then, of course, there is the absurdity, in
my judgment, of the definition of "la race blanche" in the French
text.
Honourable senators, the report has outlined these issues. I
think it is a poor way to do business, but we sometimes find
ourselves in the situation where, in the interests of larger
considerations, we are prepared to take the word of a minister. It
is not clear to me whether the commitment we have is from the
minister or the government. I refer to the undertaking in the
report that it will be a matter of govemment policy that we will
see a new piece of legislation in the spring of 1996.
Hon. Peter Bosa: Honourable senators, I too wish to make a

brief intervention on this subject.
Those senators present at the proceedings of the Standing
Senate Committee on Social Affairs, Science and Technology on
Bill C-64 have experienced first hand the worthiness of
committee work in the Senate.
I agree with Senator Kinsella that Bill C-64 leaves much to be
desired. Perhaps there is a good explanation for that. We have a
crop of new members in the other place and, as bas always been
the case, they are much more interested in the intent of the
legislation and getting re-elected than in refining the fine words
of laws that are passed.

Senator Lavoie-Roux: That is quite serious.
Senator Bosa: It is serious, but that is the way it has always
been. That is why committee work in the Senate is so important.
We were ail in agreement, both opposition and government
supporters, that Bill C-64 ought to have been amended. We heard
an explanation as to why the staff of Parliament was left out of
the bill. We were told that they were left out because Parliament
is an entity unto itself and does not want to be subject to the rules
of other jurisdictions. When the minister appeared before us for
the second time, he agreed that that could be changed.
I should like to congratulate those members of the committee
who worked particularly hard on this bill, namely
Senator Lavoie-Roux, Senator Kinsella, with his amendment,
Senator Johnson and Senator Cochrane.
Honourable senators, I think we have all learned a good lesson
from this episode. If we keep the same spirit in the future, bills
coming out of committees will be improved, and there will be a
more harmonious feeling among the members who participate in
the workings of those committees.
Hon. Sharon Carstairs: Honourable senators, I too wish to
thank the Standing Senate Committee on Social Affairs for being
so vigilant on this particular piece of legislation. Had they been
able to make amendments instead of recommendations, this
legislation would have been enhanced. There is no question in
my mind about that. I look forward to further amendments to the
employment equity bill which will bring about that enhancement.
I congratulate and thank Senators Lavoie-Roux, Johnson,
Kinsella and Cochrane for moving this piece of legislation in
such a positive way so that employment equity will be found in
all levels of the public service, including the two Houses of
Parliament and the Library of Parliament.
Hon. M. Lorne Bonnell: Honourable senators, it is wonderful
to find everyone thanking and congratulating everyone else for
the great work of the Standing Senate Committee on Social
Affairs, Science and Technology. However, as you know,
whatever project you enter into today, you must have good
leadership. Any project without leadership is a failure.
*

(140

Consequently, with the leadership we had, we were able to
bring in our report on the bill without amendments, and we were
able to say that some of our senators had made a motion to make
amendments and present them to the bouse. However, they
backtracked on that when they heard the facts.
Senator Berntson: We will make them again at third reading,
if you like.
Senator Bonnell: That is a good idea. However, there was one
person who was not thanked, or even mentioned, and that was
Senator Bosa. Senator Bosa acted as chairman for a short while
the other day when I was caught in the storm. He looked after the
committee meeting for me, and I want to thank him for that.

At the same time, I also want to thank Senator Cools, who
raised the racial issue and the definition concerning visible
minorities, and brought those matters to our attention in the first
place. Our great senator from New Brunswick, Senator Kinsella
- following the leadership from Senator Cools - added his
support. That is why the matter came up in the first place and
was suggested as the subject of a possible amendment.
The thing that surprised me, as a non-biased chairman, was
that when the first amendment and the first report were before
the committee, a couple of senators walked in just as the vote
was being held. They had not heard any of the evidence or the
witnesses - and they probably had not even read the bill - but
they came in without saying one word and just voted to put the
amendment through.
Senator Doody: They were probably well briefed!
Senator Bonnell: Some leadership somewhere else must have
briefed them, then.
Honourable senators, I want to thank all of the members of the
committee for their great, hard work. Even with the persuasion
that they were subjected to from witnesses - although not from
the leadership - they were able to see the light and bring the bill
forward without amendments. I am quite sure that Canada will
benefit from that.
In the Province of Ontario, they are doing away with such
things as equity bills, whereas here, in the Senate of Canada, with
all the Conservatives here, we are putting forth these equity bills
in spite of what their government is doing in Ontario.
Hon. Rose-Marie Losier-Cool: Honourable senators, as the
sponsor of this bill, and mostly as an ardent fighter for
affirmative action and equity, I, too, want to thank all my
colleagues for their participation in making this bill a better piece
of legislation, as Senator Kinsella has just pointed out.
[Translation]
What is important today is that we now have a progressive law
on employment equity, which will offer all Canadians the same
opportunities in the job market.
[Englishl
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, the question
before the Senate is the third reading of Bill C-64. If no other
senator wishes to speak, I will put the motion.
It was moved by the Honourable Senator Graham, seconded
by the Honourable Senator Losier-Cool, that Bill C-64 be read
the third time now.
Is it your pleasure, honourable senators, to adopt the motion?
Motion agreed to and bill read third time and passed.

December 13. 1995

2497
2497

SENATE DEBATES

SENATE DEBATES

December 13. 1995

APPROPRIATION BILL NO. 3,1995-96
THIRD READING

Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government), moved third reading of Bill C-I 116, for granting to
Her Majesty certain sums of money for the public service of
Canada for the tinancial year ending March 31, 1996.

Hon. Senators: Agreed.
The Hon. the Speaker: Please cal! in the senators.
0e 115

The Hon. the Speaker: It was moved by the Honourable
Senator Kirby, seconded by the Honourable Senator Davey, that
this report be now adopted.

Motion agreed to and bill read third time and passed.
EXCISE TAX ACT
INCOME TAX ACT
BILL TO AMEND-REPORT 0F COMMIrTEEMOTION TO ADOPT NEGATIVED

Leave baving been given to proceed to Government
Business-Reports of Committees:
On the Order:
Resuming the debate on the motion of the Honourable
Senator Kirby, seconded by the Honourable Senator Davey,
for the adoption of the twenty-sixth report, as amended, of
the Standing Senate Committee on Banking, Trade and
Commerce (Bill C-103, An Act to amend the Excise Tax
Act and the Income Tax Act, with an amendment),
presented in the Senate on December 5, 1995.
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, if no other
honourable senator wishes to speak on Bill C-103, I will proceed
with the motion for the adoption of the report.
Is it your pleasure, honourable senators, to adopt the motion?
Some Hon. Senators: No.
Some Hon. Senators: Yes.
The Hon. the Speaker: Would those honourable senators in
favour of the motion please say "yea"?
Some Hon. Senators: Yea.
The Hon. the Speaker: Would those honourable senators who
are opposed to the motion please say "nay"?
Some Hon. Senators: Nay.
The Hon. the Speaker: In my opinion, the "nays" have it.
And two honourable senators having risen.

Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): I understand there is an agreement for a
15-minute bell.
Hon. Noël A. Kinsella: Your Honour. my colleague Senator
Hébert and I have agreed on a 15-minute bell.
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators. the whips have
agreed to a 15-minute bell. The beils will ring until 3:15. At 3:15.
the belis wihl cease ringing and the vote will be held. Is il agreed'?

Motion negatived on the following division:
YEAS
THE HONOURABLE SENATORS
Keon
Kinsella
Lynch-Staunton
Meighen
Nolin
Oliver
Phillips
Rivest
Roberge
Rossiter
Simard
Tkachuk-24

Andreycbuk
Angus
Atkîns
Beaudoin
Berntson
Bolduc
Buchanan
Di Nino
Ghitter
Grimard
Gustafson
Kelleher
NAYS

THE HONOURABLE SENATORS
Adams
Anderson
Austin
Bacon
Bonnel
Bosa
Carstairs
Cochrane
Comeau
Cools
Davey
De Bané
DeWare
Doody
Doyle
Fairbairn
Gauthier
Gigantès
Grafstein
Graham
Haidasz
Hays
Hébert
Hervieux-Payette
Johnson
Kelly

Kenny
Lavoie-Roux
Lewis
Losier-Cool
MacEachen
Marchand
Milne
Murray
Oison
Ottenheimer
Pearson
Perrault
Petten
Poulin
Rizzuto
Robertson
Robichaud
Rompkey
Roux
Sparrow
Spivak
Stanbury
Stewart
Thériault
Watt-S I

ABSTENTIONS
THE HONOURABLE SENATORS
Carney- 1
Hon. Pat Carney: Honourable senators. 1 want the record to
show that 1 abstained because of a possible confliet of interest.
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, when shall this
bill be read the third lime?
On motion of Senator Graham. bill placed on Orders of the
Day for third reading at the next sitting of the Senate.
BUSINESS 0F THE SENATE
Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourable senators. as you know, several

committees have been scheduied t0 sit at this time. this being
committee day. We have quite a heavy Order Paper yet t0 go, but
there has been discussion between the leadership on both sides,
and discussion with those honourabie senators who have items
on the Order Paper. There appears to be general agreement that
we wouid stand ail remaining orders, and ensure that, on
Thursday and other occasions, we give ail honourable senators an
opportunity to voice their opinion and debate the very important
motion standing in the iiame of Senator Fairbairn.
1 wouid urge ail honourable senators who are members of the
committees that are sitting at the present lime to go directiy to
those committees, but 1 would first ask if there is agreement that
we proceed in the fashion 1 have outiined.
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
The Senate adjourned until tomorrow at 2 p.m.

2499

THE SENATE
Thursday, December 14, 1995
The Senate met at 2:00 p.m., the Speaker in the Chair.
Prayers.

SENATORS' STATEMENTS
TWEED AND DISTRICT HISTORICAL SOCIETY
Hon. Marcel Prud'homme: Honourable senators, on
Saturday, December 9, 1995, I attended the inauguration and
opening of a heritage house by the Tweed and District Historical
Society. I was invited to attend by the Reeve, Dr. Gibson Allen,
and his wife, Dr. Barbara Allen. Tweed is located in the County
of Hastings, Ontario, some 30 minutes' drive from Belleville.
During the inaugural ceremony, the members of this small but
vibrant community demonstrated the importance of preserving
their traditions and remembering their communal roots. One of
the rooms was named The A. Gibson and Barbara Allan Gallery
in recognition of the wonderful contribution that this couple has
made to the community. Dr. Barbara Allan, a doctor of
psychology, was the village reeve before her husband. In the
12 years she occupied that position, the village was able to
develop, and her husband is now continuing the work.
I met interesting people such as Mrs. Eileen Geen, the
President of the Tweed and District Historical Society, who
enlightened me on the fascinating history of the region. I had the
pleasure of meeting Mr. Evan Morton, who is a fabulous curator
and also the deputy reeve. Last but not least, I met a grand and
charming lady named Grace Porrit, who is, by her own
admission, 93 years young and the proud granddaughter of the
gentleman who built this house in the District of Tweed.
Honourable senators, I am proud to have been invited to such
an event. I have a great deal of respect for people who can say,
like others, "Je me souviens," of what Tweed has been for so
many years.
I hope that the next time you go back to Toronto, you will take
the scenic route through Carleton Place, Smith Falls and Perth, to
stop in Tweed and visit the heritage house of the Tweed and
District Historical Society. I can assure you of an unbelievable
reception. If you say you are from the Senate of Canada, I am
sure Dr. Allen and Mrs. Allen will be more than delighted to
receive you and that Mr. Evan Morton, the curator, will be more
than happy to explain to you the history of the region.
HUMAN RIGHTS
TIBET-INSTALLATION BY CHINESE OF PANCHEN LAMA

Hon. Consiglio Di Nino: Honourable senators, for the past
three decades or more, Canadians have engaged in a debate to

ensure the survival of a distinct and unique Canadian culture in
Quebec, an objective we all support.
During this same period, we have been witnessing one of the
world's oldest and unique cultures being systematically
destroyed. I speak, of course, of the situation in Tibet. Added to
all the other horror stories coming out of that country for the last
45 years is the most recent shameful act perpetrated by the
Chinese against Tibetan culture.
Last week, the Chinese government installed its own Panchen
Lama, Tibetan Buddhism's second highest religious authority,
and apparently abducted a young boy and his family, whom his
Holiness the Dalai Lama had selected as the Panchen Lama after
following a strict, traditional search in accordance with Tibetan
Buddhism. The Chinese chose their candidate by drawing lots.
The whereabouts of the young Panchen Lama and his family are
unknown, and the Chinese government has stonewalled all
inquiries about them.
Honourable senators, Beijing's actions are part of a planned
systematic extinction of a rare and important world culture.
Shamefully, the world is standing by, waiting for business deals,
while the cries of agony and despair from Tibetans and a few
other brave souls who are not willing to prostitute themselves on
the economic altar are ignored. I wonder how we would respond
if what is being eradicated was a plant or an animal species.
a (1410)

ROUTINE PROCEEDINGS
NATIONAL DEFENCE
SPECIAL COMMISSION ON RESTRUCTURING OF THE
RESERVES-REPORT OF SOCIAL AFFAIRS, SCIENCE
AND TECHNOLOGY COMMITTEE PRESENTED AND
PRINTED AS APPENDIX

Hon. M. Lorne Bonnell: Honourable senators, I have the

honour to present the thirteenth report of the Standing Senate
Committee on Social Affairs, Science and Technology, which
deals with the report of the Special Commission on the
Restructuring of the Reserves, tabled in the Senate on
November 7, 1995.
I ask that the report be printed as an appendix to the Minutes of
the Proceedings of the Senate of this day.

The Hon. the Speaker: Is it agreed, honourable senators?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
(For text

(?f report, see todalv's Minutes of the Proceedings of'

the Senate.)
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, when shall this
report be taken into consideration?
On motion of Senator Bonneil. report placed on the Orders of
the Day for consideration at the next sitting of the Senate.

INTERNAL ECONOMY, BUDGETS AND
ADMINISTRATION
FORTIETH REPORT 0F COMM!ITEE PRESENTED

Hion. Colin Kenny, Chairman of the Standing Committee on
InternaI Economy. Budgets and Administration. presented the
tollowing report:

FORTY FIRST REPORT
Your committee has examined and approved the
supplementary budget presented to it by the Standing Senate
Committee on Energy, the Environment and Natural
Resources for the proposed expenditures of the said
Committee for the fiscal year ending March 31, 1996 Io
engage the services of such counseî and technical, clerical
and other personnel as may be necessary for the purpose of
its examination and consideration of such bills,
subject-matters of bills and estimates as are referred to it as
authorized by the Senate on April 27, 1994. The said
supplementary budget is as follows:
Transportation and Communications

$42,420

TOTAL

$42,420

Respectfully submitted.
COLIN KENNY
Chairnian

Thursday, December 14. 1995
The Standing Committee on InternaI Economy. Budgets
and Administration has the honour to present its

FORTY-SECOND REPORT PRESENTED

Hon. Colin Kenny, Chairman of the Standing Committee on
InternaI Economy. Budgets and Administration. presented the
tollowing report:

FORTJETH REPORT
Your committec has examined and approved the
supplementary budget presented to it by the Standing Senate
Committee on National Finance for the proposed
expenditures of the said Committee for the fiscal year
ending March 31, 1996 te engage the services of' such
counsel and technical, clerical and other personnel as may
be necessary for the purpose of its examination and
consideration of such bis. subject-matters of bis and
estimates as are referred te it as authorized by the Senate on
February 22, 1994. The said supplementary budget is as
follows:
Professional and Other Services

$ 70,200

TOTAL

$70,200)

Respectfully submitted.

Thursday. December 14, 1995
The Standing Committee on InternaI Economy, Budgets
and Administration has the honour to present its
FORTY-SECOND REPORT
Your committee has examined and approved the budget
presented to it by the Special Joint Committee on a Code of'
Conduct for the proposed expenditures of tbe said
Committee for the period of August 31. 1995 to March 29.
1996, for the purpose of its consideration of a code a
conduct for Senators and Members of the House of
Commons, as authorized by the Senate on June 28, 1995.
The said budget is as follows:

FORTY FIRST REPORT PRESENTED

Hon. Colin Kenny, Chairman of the Standing Committee on
InternaI Economy. Budgets and Administration. presented the
fohlowing report:
Thursday. Deccmber 14, 1995
IThe Standing C'ommittee on InternaI Lconomv., Budgets
and Administr ation lias the honour te present its

$28,592

TOTAL

COLIN KENNY
Chairman

Printing
Advertising
Witnesses' Expenses
Miscellaneous

$31,942

335
2,345
670

Respectfully submitted.
COLIN KENNY
Chairinan

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators. when shaîl these
reports be taken into considerationl
On motion of Senator Kenny. reports placed on the Orders ol'
the Da\ l'or consideration at the next sitting et the Senate.

2501
2501

SENATE DEBATES

December 14, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

December 14. 1995
CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENTS BILL

JUSTICE

FIRST READING

REQUESI 0F MINISTER FOR INVESTIGATION BY CANADIAN
JUDICIAL COUNCIL INTO REMARKS 0F QUEBEC JUDOFNOTICE OF INQUIRY

The Hon. the Speaker informed the Senate that a message
had been received from the House of Commons with Bill C- 110,
respecting constitutional amendments.
Bill read first time.
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, when shahl this
bill be read the second time?
On motion of Senator Graham, with leave of the Senate and
notwithstanding ruie 57(1 )(J), bill placed on the Orders of the
Day for second reading later this day.
NATIONAL HOUSING ACT

Hon. Anne C. Cools: Honourable senators, pursuant to
mile 56(1), (2) and rule 57(2), 1 give notice that, two days hence,
1 shail eal the attention of the Senate to the request of
December 12, 1995, by the Minister of Justice, the Honourable
Allan Rock, to the Canadian Judicial Council for a full
investigation into the behaviour of the Honourable Mr. Justice
Jean Bienvenue of the Quebec Superior Court; and to the fact of
Mr. Justice Jean Bienvenue's express apology for his comments
regarding the Holocaust; and also to Mr. Justice Jean
Bienvenue's expressed shock at the deliberate cruelty of the
accused, Tracy Theberge, in the murder of her spouse by the use
of a razor blade to cut hîs throat.

BILL TO AMEND-FIRST READING

The Hon. the Speaker informed the Senate that a message
had been received from the House of Commons with Bihl C-108,
to amend the National Housing Act.
Bill read first time.
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, when shahl this
bill be read the second time?
On motion of Senator Graham, with leave of the Senate and
notwithstanding rule 57(1 )(J), bill placed on the Orders of the
Day for second reading later this day.
[Translation]

INTERNATIONAL ASSEMBLY 0F
FRENCH-SPEAKING PARLEMENTARIANS

CONSTITUTION ACT, 1867
POWERS 0F SENATE

NOTICE 0F INQUIRY

Hon. Anne Cools: Honourable senators, pursuant to rule 56(1)
and (2) and 57(2), 1 give notice that 1 will cal] the attention of the
Senate to:
Section 31(4) of the Constitution Act 1867, which reads,
"If he is attainted of Treason or convicted of Felony or of
any infamous Crime," being the powers of the Senate to,
ataint Senators; and to the Senate's powers, including the
powers of judicature, the powers to pass bis of attainder
and bis of pains and penalties, the powers of
impeachment, and the powers of judicial review as per
the ancient customs and usages of Parliament in
accordance with the Constitution and the Law of
Parliament; and to section 18 of the Constitution Act,
1867.

SEMINAR HELD IN PORT-AU-PRINCE-REPORT TABLED

Hon. Jean-Robert Gauthier: Honourable senators, pursuant
to rule 23(6), 1 have the honour to present, in both officiaI
languages, the report of the Assemblée internationale des
parlementaires de langue française concerning the seminar for
exchanging views and information on parliamentary democracy
in action, held at Port-au-Prince, Haiti, November 16 to 19, 1995.
[English]
REPORT 0F CANADIAN DELEGATION AND FINANCIAL REPORT 0F
TWENTY-FIRST SESSION HELD IN OTTAWA
AND QUEBEC CITY

Hon. Jean-Robert Gauthier: Honourable senators, pursuant
to rule 23(6), 1 have the honour to present, in both official
languages, the report of the Canadian delegation to the
International Assembly of French-Speaking Parliamentarians and
the financial report of the twenty-first regular session of the
AIPLF held in Ottawa and Quebec City respectively from
July 7to 12. 1995.

[Translation]

QUESTION PERIOD
HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT
CHILD CARE-FEDERAL OFFER 0F FUNDINOPROVINCIAL CUTS TO PROGRAMS-GOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. Roch Bolduc: Honourable senators, my question is
directed to, the Leader of the Government in the Senate. This
morning we received a press release from Mr. Axworthy, the
Minister of Human Resources Development, announcing that the
government wants to inject $720 million into a new national
child care program. The minister says this is what they promised
in the Red Book, but Mr. Martin, the Finance Minister, says there
is no more money. that we must live within our means and
tighten our belts. Could the Leader of the Government in the
Senate make some sense of aIl this?

[En glisli]

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators. as Senator Bolduc would know, the issue of
trying to increase child care spaces in this country bas been one
pursued by this govemment and the one before it. Yesterday, the
minister announced measures that he hoped would result in a
substantial increase. partly through cooperation with the
provinces, of child care spaces in this country. He will be
engaged in discussions with provincial governments and
ministers on their suggestions and their interest in sharing in this
program.
This child care proposai bas been out there for some time.
According to Mr. Axworthy, interest has been expressed by a
number of provinces in sharing with the federal govemment the
plan to increase the levels. He is ottering up to $630 million over
the next three to five years for these kinds of partnerships with
the provinces and the territories. with ongoing funding being
available afterwards.
I take the point of my honourable friend's question. Each level
of government, at the moment, is certainly under restraint and
constraint in very many areas. In this one, 1 believe a very
dedicated effort will be made by both the provinces and the
federal government to join together to access tunding which wiII
increase child care spaces.
To complete the answer. although this is not germane to My
honourable friend's question. the issue of child care
commitments was further addressed yesterday with a $72-million
commitment for First Nations and Inuit child care; and with an
$18-million l'und over three years for a research and development
program.
[Translation]
CHILD CARE-FEDERAL OFFER OF FUNDINGFISCAL INEQUALITY AMONO PROVINCES

Hon. Roch Bolduc: Honourable senators, the provinces are in
a tight spot because the federal government is reducing transfer
payments to the provinces. The provinces are closing hospitals.
They are closing hospitals in Quebec. Meanwhile, the federal
govemment proposes a child care program. To me, this makes no
sense at ail. Only the provinces that have enough money will
participate.
First of aIl, it means there will be no transfer; second, a major
consequence of this policy will be to make some provinces more
equal than others. Third. there will bc no transfer within society
itself. because the middle class has the advantage and the little
guy is paying. as usual.
[En glish]
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators. Senator Bolduc bas stated that only the

provinces with money will profit from this measure. We will
have to wait and sec what results from discussions with the
provinces. because it certainly would be the hope of the federal
government that aIl the provinces would *join in this program.
My honourable friend knows that it is not simply a case of
providing child care spaces in this country. A huge number of
employable people. single mothers in particular are kept out of
the workforce because there is no place for their childreîi to bc
cared for during the working day. It is much more than a social
problem; it is an economie problem. The freedom to enter the
workforce should be available not only to women in
middle-income areas but also to those at the lowest end of the
opportunity scale.
This issue must be of concemn to, every level of government
because it is not just a social issue-. il is an economic issue as
Weil.
Hon. L. Norbert Thériault: Honourable senators, 1 rise on a
supplementary question. Aithough 1 do applaud the
announcement by the government. 1 do have a concern. Did 1
hear the minister correctly when she mentioned a long-term
commitment?
Formerly, as a provincial politician. my concern was always
that tederal govemmen's would start programs. finance them for
a lew years. and then drop out of them. leaving the provinces 10
carry on alone.
Would the minister be kind enough to tell the Senate what she
means by "long-term commitment"'?
Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators, although 1 should
have the dollar figure here. 1 do not. These spaces will be set up
over some three to five years. using the initial amount
of $630 million. After that time. the govemment bas committed
itself 10 an annual payment 10 the provinces. at a smaller level ot
course, to facilitate the continuation of the program.

Senator Thériault: Honourable senators. it was my
understanding of' the announcement that was made that the costs
in the next three to five years will be split 50-50. Does the
minister mean that. aller three to five years. the contribution will
be less than 50 per cent'?
Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators, 1 cannot answcr the
question of whether the contribution will be less than 50 per cent.
The sustaining money will be less than the initial investment 10
set up the spaces.
The federal government bas placed on the table the offer of a
continuing, sustaining contribution to the provinces. 1 will obtain
the correct details f'or response 10 my honourable friend's
question about the percentage of sharing.

December 14, 1995

December 14, 1995

2503

SENATE DEBATES

[Translation]
CHILD CARE-FEDERAL OFFER OF FUNDING-LACK OF
CONSULTATION WITH PROVINCES-GOVERNMENT POSITION

Honourable Marcel Prud'homme: Honourable senators, I
find that these programs smack of improvisation and lack of
consultation.
I served thirty years in the House of Commons. I remember
very popular programs being created and then abandoned, fobbed
off on the provinces. What I find unusual here is the talk of
reorganizing the giant federal machinery.
One of my colleagues across the way refers to employment,
wanting to get people back to work. I hope that does not refer to
some of us. Some people are capable of paying for their children
to be looked after, if that is necessary.
I wish to make it clear immediately that I am not opposed to
these projects, but to the lack of consultation with the provinces.
Who knows how long the program will last? If the federal
government no longer looks after existing programs, the
provinces are faced with a very difficult problem. On the one
hand the projects are good, but on the other the provinces are in
danger of running into huge problems when they cannot
withdraw from something that started out on a 50-50 basis but
ends up with ail on them.
Is this a definitive program or just a statement of the federal
government's intentions? Will there be meetings with the
provincial counterparts to find out whether or not it is
acceptable? I have nothing against the announcement itself. It
was in your Red Book during the campaign; I am not surprised.
Now that the program is announced, now that the decision is out
on the table, will there be consultation with the provincial
governments? If the provincial governments say no, they will not
take part [English]

- will they lose that money?
throat and be told, "If you
money"? It is embarrassing
program. It is a lot of money,

2503

SENATE DEBATES

Will they have a knife held to their
do not accept, you will lose the
to lose 50 per cent of a good
especially in Quebec and Ontario.

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, as Senator Prud'homme would know,
during the social policy review that was carried out well over a
year ago, the question of child care was central to those broader
discussions. The issue is well known to the provinces, and they
have been asked to consider options as to how they might wish to
implement it.

Mr. Axworthy made his announcement yesterday based on
funding that was laid aside in the budget, pursuant to the promise
that, after the economy achieved a period of three per cent
growth, which it did, that money would be available for child
care. He has written to his colleagues in aIl of the provinces
asking them to communicate their views to him and inviting
them to get together to discuss this issue.

I cannot answer what really is, at this point, a hypothetical
question as to what would happen if some did come on board and
some did not. The minister's goal is to try to reach an
accommodation that would permit this program to become a
national program. He understands - and he made the point in
his statement - that the delivery of this type of program rests
within provincial jurisdiction. In that sense, he is respectful of
the provinces, but he is saying, "Let us get together now. We
have the financial capabilities to initiate this program. Let us
work together and do it on a national basis."
That is the goal of the minister. I am sure ail honourable
senators would wish these particular federal-provincial
discussions success.
[Translation]
CHILD CARE-FEDERAL OFFER OF FUNDINGCOMMENTS IN MEDIA-GOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. Jean-Maurice Simard: Honourable senators, are we to
believe the media, which are reporting on the reaction of surprise
on the part of the Minister of Finance, Mr. Paul Martin, at the
extemporaneous and chance announcement by his colleague
Mr. Axworthy yesterday? How do we interpret this surprise
expressed by Mr. Martin? Are we to understand that this is
another aspect of the strategy of improvisation, which is based on
the polls, to bolster Mr. Chrétien's current popularity?
[English]

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, absolutely not. Senator Simard should
believe that if a sum of money as large as $720 million were
involved in a program, the Minister of Finance would be well
informed on the program, well informed on the announcement,
and well informed on the source of the money. He is completely
aware of the program and extremely supportive of it.
[Translation]
CHILD CARE-FEDERAL OFFER OF FUNDING-DISCUSSIONS WITH
PROVINCIAL FINANCE MINISTERS-GOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. Pierre Claude Nolin: Honourable senators, why did the
Minister of Finance not discuss the matter with his provincial
counterparts, if he already knew?
[English]

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, there were a great many issues on the
agenda for the ministers of finance. I am not aware personally of
whether or not this issue crept into their discussions. Certainly,
this subject, and the imminence of its announcement, has not
really been a secret in terms of the federal-provincial discussions
that go on continuously. not only between the Minister of
Finance and his colleagues but also between the Minister of
Human Resources Development and his colleagues.

[Transiation1

PEARSON AIRPORT AGREEMENTS
SPECIAL SENATE COMMITTEE-REQUEST FOR PARTICULARS 0F
EXPENDITURES ON CONSULTANTS

Hon. Pierre Claude Nolin: Honourable senators, my question
is on a wholly different matter. Yesterday afternoon. we were
given the third report by the special Senate committee on the
Pearson Airport Agreements. We Iearned, with considerable
interest. that the committee did flot spend its entire budget
of $298.000.
We discovered. from a cursory read of the committee*s main
report. that your goverfiment had hired consultants to help it
along during the deliberations of the special Senate committee. 1
would like to know how much your government spent on
specialty firms of Iawyers and accountants to help it develop its
strategy during the deliberations of the Special Senate
Committee on the Pearson Airpori Agreements.
[Englishi

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, 1 will certainly try to obtain an answer to
the honourable senator's question. At the same time. 1
congratulate the committee itself f'or coming in under budget.

HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT
CHILD CARE-FEDERAL OIFFER 0F FUNDING-RESTRICTIONS ON
CATEGORIES 0F PROVIDERS GOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. Mira Spivak: Honourable senators. my question is
directed to the Leader of the Govemment in the Senate, and it
goes back to the child care question.
In the newspaper coverage of the announcement. 1 read that
two conditions were attached to the minister's proposai. This
money is to go towards affordable and quality child care.
Will there be any restrictions on whether the child care is
non-profit or private? Must the child care institution be of a
certain size?ý In particular. will any child care chains receive
funding?

[Trco loion]Senator Yes.
Fairbairn:

HUMAN RIGHTS
FURTHER INCARCERATION 0F CHINESE DISSIDENTGOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. A. Raynell Andreychuk: Honourable senators.
yesterday Mr. Wei Jingsheng was sentenced to 14 years in China
for peaceiully advocating that democracy was necessary in that
country. In light of the fact that stability is important for our trade
and investment in China. and that stability requires economic and
social development f'or peoples. as we perceive democratic
principles and good governiment. could the Leader of the
Government in the Senate tell me what steps of' protest the
goverfiment will be taking in regard to this action in China'?
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable Senators. I will take that question as notice. The
situation of Mr. Wei Jingsheng was raised yesterday but, as yet, I
have not received a response. 1 will add the honourable senator*s
question to those asked previously.

Senator Andreychuk: WilI this affect in any way the Prime
Minister's visit to Asia and his dealings with any of the Chinese
leaders and delegations?
Senator Fairbairn: Honourahie senators. as my honourable
friend would know. the Prime Minister's visit to the Far East in
January does not include China. 1 will also add that question to
My list.
Hon. Ron Ghitter: Honourable senators, as a supplementary
question. surely the fact that an individual in China has been
placed in jail for 14 years for expressing a political point of view
must be so disgusting and distasteful to a country like Canada;
the tact that our Prime Minister has done nothing and has been
silent. as far as 1 know: the fact that the minister does flot even
know what statemenîs have been made by him; and the fact that
Canada is losing its reputation as being a defender of human
rights. 1 would suggest. are of such importance that it is not
sufficient for us to take matters like this under advisement.
We should aIl be standing up yelling and screaming at China
and at our government's inactivity. We should be doing
something about it, rather than hiding behind whatever we are
hiding behind.

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government>:
Honourable senators. 1 will need to ask my colleague
Mr. Axworthy for particulars on this question. 1 arn sure these
issues will be part of the tèderal-provincial discussions. It is a
good question. and 1 will obtain an answer for the honourable
senator.

Senator Spivak: Is this to be 'government-to-govemment"?
By that 1 mean. will it be administered by the provincial
governments?

Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators, 1 know Senator
Ghitter*s passion on these issues. and 1 respect it.
If he wishes. he can level blame. or whatever he wishes to do,
on me. because I have been unable to respond in the last
24 hours. 1 have undertaken to answer the questions posed by
honourable senators. 1 wiIl do that to the best of my ability.
having had the opportunity to consult with my colleagues and
find out the answers.

14,

1995

December 14, 1995SEAEDBTS20
December

SENATE DEBATES

I am not prepared on this, or on any other subject in the Senate
- and my friend Senator Murray has been in this position before
- to stand up here on my own, not having completed my
homework, and give an answer in this house.
Senator Ghitter: Honourable senators, I very much appreciate
the position in which the honourable leader finds herself.
However, in making her inquiries, would she please express to
the Prime Minister and cabinet the utter dismay and concem, if
not disgust, of many of us, at the inactivity of the federal
government and their lack of courage in responding to such a
terrible situation? We expect to see more courage being exhibited
by our government; we do not expect them to sit back or to hide.
Perhaps our Prime Minister should eat something different for
breakfast.
Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators, I will wait for
Hansard to be printed. I will then be pleased, as I always am, to
circulate the views of the Senate to my colleagues in the cabinet
and in the caucus. I am sure that my honourable friend would
wish me to do so in the language he has used, which is certainly
not language I would use.
Senator Ghitter: You may use my language any day!
VIGILANCE TOWARDS SITUATIONS DEVELOPING IN OTHER
COUNTRIES-GOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. A. Raynell Andreychuk: Honourable senators, I should
like to ask a supplementary on this issue.
I would ask the Honourable Leader of the Government in the
Senate, in her response to my question, not to limit my question
to whether or not the Prime Minister will visit China. He will
visit Asia.
My concern, honourable senators, is that we are somehow
reticent to speak up on human rights issues which arise in larger
countries in Asia, yet we seem to feel free to speak out on those
issues as they relate to smaller countries.
I would like to be sure that the answer I receive includes an
answer to this question: Do we wait until executions occur before
we find multilateral environments in which we can speak out?
Must we lose valuable and important lives before we take a stand
on human rights issues?
It would seern to me that we should not always wait until the
most dastardly steps are taken before we speak out or impose
sanctions. Nipping human rights issues in the bud is the way we
should proceed, whether on a bilateral, regional or multilateral
basis. Is the government moving on any one of those three
fronts?
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, my first comment would be that every life
is important, regardless of what country it is in.
I also would dispute, with great vigour, the suggestion that
there is anything cowardly about the Prime Minister of Canada.
There is not.

2505

Honourable senators may not agree, and some do not agree on
the other side - perhaps all those on the other side - with the
Prime Minister's policy on human rights and trade and
international affairs. That, of course, is part of our political,
democratic process in this country. However, the fact of the
matter is that the Prime Minister of Canada has, on numerous
occasions, expressed his views privately and publicly on the
question of human rights. That is a fact.
Some Hon. Senators: Hear, hear!
Senator Fairbairn: Whether he has done it in the manner or
using the language which my honourable friends opposite would
wish him to use, is another question entirely.
I have given a commitment, first, to try to find out the facts
that are being sought in the questions asked of me; and, second, I
have made a commitment, rather than paraphrasing the views of
my friends opposite, to ensure that, word for word, passion for
passion, extreme language for extreme language, their questions
will be passed on. That is what I intend to do.
Hon. Marcel Prud'homme: Honourable senators, we have
had this debate before. I am very much on the minister's side on
this question. You will all remember that we have debated the
matter of picking and choosing who we should be more inclined
to defend in the area of human rights.
I remember the teachings of my father who said, "I hope that
when you get up in the House of Commons to talk about human
rights, you do not pick and choose. You either believe in the
universality of human rights, or you do not. If you start to pick
and choose, then you are biased." Therefore, I hope that you will
extend your examination of the issue to other cases throughout
the world.
On the eve of a great celebration in Canada, I do not wish to
throw out the names of people who are rotting in prisons in
certain parts of the world, their sole crime being that they have
informed us of nuclear possibilities and technologies which exist
in some parts of the world.
0

(1450)

I am purposely being vague and general, in order not to offend
anyone in the Senate. In the past, certain individuals have drawn
to our attention certain events that are taking place in certain
countries, but we have never raised those issues. Therefore,
although some honourable senators have mentioned a name that
is very well known internationally, there are other cases.
I hope that, from time to timie, we will have full debate on the
subject of human rights, in order that we will not be seen to pick
and choose but to be universal. The same policy should apply to
China, which is very big, as applies to smaller countries. It makes
me very uncomfortable to sec people give so much attention to
one particular case and seem to be ignoring other cases that are
occurring throughout the world.

Wou d you, therefore. kindly extend your inquiries and
provide us with the names or other studies that have been donc?
1 assure you that 1 will read tbem al].
Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators, 1 appreciate my
honourable friend's position. 1 will certainly convey his views, as
1 will those of other senators, to my colleagues in cabinet. As 1
said, we can ratchet up the rbetoric ail we wish in this bouse but
the fact remains that everyone in tbis house. and everyone in the
Canadian govemment. is gravely concernied about human rights
and human rights abuses, wherever tbey occur in the world.
INDONESIA-UPCOMING VISIT BY PRIME MINISTER DISCUSSIONS
0F ABUSES IN EAST TIMOR GOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. Noël A. Kinsella: Honourable senators, my question is
directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate and is on
the same topic.
In the nexi few weeks, the Prime Minister will be Ieading a
delegation to Indonesia. Indonesia has been the subject of inquiry
by the International Commission of Jurists, by Amnesty
International, by the United States of America's State
Department Country Reports, and others, the concensus of whicb
are universally that there are very serious problems in relation to
the respect for human rigbts in Indonesia.
In Iight of the fact that there is ample objective evidence to
suspect that there are serious violations of buman rigbîs
occurring in Indonesia. does the Prime Minister of Canada intend
10 raise the question of buman rigbts during his visit 10
Indonesia?
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators. 1 assume that Honourable Senator Kinsella
is referring t0 violations occurring in East Timor. Again, I wiIl
seek specific intormation from the Prime Minister. However.
Senator Kinsella sbould k-now that this issue was discussed by
the Minister of Foreign Affairs witb tbe Indonesian foreign
minister at tbe recent APEC meeting in Osaka, and our embassy
in Jakarta makes Canada's views on Ibis situation known 10 the
Indonesian government on a very regular basis.
[Translation]
CAMPAIGN PROMISE 0F ANNUAL REPORTSGOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. Pierre Claude Nolin: Honourable senators, since we are
talking about human rigbts, during the election campaign your
party promised t0 publisb annually a report on the status of'
buman rigbts. 1 recall that we bave asked the same question
several times since tben. and wc are still waiting for this report
your government was supposed t0 publisb. Wbat is tbe situation
so far?

1Senatoi

Pi udloni

]

[En glish]
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators. 1 will cbeck on tbat matter for my
bonourable friend.
[Translation]
HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT
UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE REFORM-PROGRAM FOR STUDY 0F
LEGISLATION GOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. Jean-Maurice Simard: My two questions concern
Bis C- 111 and C-I
12 and tbe employment reforms announced
several montbs ago. and now being considered in tbe House of
Commons.
Tbese reforms continue t0 cause considerable concern and
even panic among tbe people of New Brunswick, especially
among seasonal workers in tbe Atlantic provinces and probably
across tbe country as weIl. The New Brunswick press has been
reporting on tbis panic situation for the past montb.
In tbis momning's edition of L'A cadie nouvelle. the province's
francopbone newspaper, Nelson Landry writes tbat Liberal
ministers sbould stop playing minister for a few days, forget
about Pearson airport and tbe sale of CN. and take some lime t0
explain tbese conîroversial buis. It is suggested tbey come t0
New Brunswick and stop bibernating in Ottawa.
Wbat time-frame is tbe government considering 10 ensure tbat
the Senate will be able t0 give full consideration 10 botb bis'?
Wili tbe Senate again be tbe victim of a persistent. unilateral
rumour tbat the current session wili be terminated?
[English]
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourabie senators. the Honourable Senator Simard is aware
that Mr. Axwortby's proposaIs have been placed betore a House
of Commons committee wbich, in the pernod wben the House of
Commons wiIl be adjoumned, bas pledged 10 begin wide-ranging
studies on this legislation, wbicb bas indeed received a great deal
of interest and a great deal of support in ail parts of Canada,
including Atlantic Canada, for tbe principles wbicb il puts
forward. As my honourable friend knows, there bave been
concerns expressed as well.
0 (l5oU>

It may be my bonourable friend's belief tbat members of
Parliament. wbetber tbey be in tbe House of Commons or in tbe
Senate, are bibernating in Ottawa, doing notbing. However, let
me assure bim tbat Atlantic Regional members of Parliament.
botb senators and members of the House of Commons, from Ibis
side of the bouse, have been absoluteiy engrossed witb Ibis
legislation. Their influence bas been felt on Ibis legisiation
tbrougb tbe many montbs in wbicb it bas been deveioped. revised
and re-revised.

December 14, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

The question of seasonal workers has been one of the most
important areas that members from Atlantic Canada have been
pressing upon Mr. Axworthy. Parts of this legislation are
definitely sensitive to the seasonal nature of the work that many
people in Atlantic Canada and the province of Quebec
expenence.
Senator Simard: I appreciate the Leader of the Government
in the Senate's rhetoric in her answer. However, New
Brunswickers do not take comfort in what might be done by their
own provincial and federal ministers or MPs in Ottawa. They
want to see them in New Brunswick. face-to-face, and many
newspaper editors are supporting such a meeting.
I hope that during the Christmas holidays these members will
be seen and heard. and that they will not, as has been the case in
the last month, send civil servants as messengers to explain and
defend this government's legislation. I hope Ministers Young and
Robichaud will do their job.
My second question on the same subject

2507
2507

SENATE DEBATES

December 14, 1995

in his presence, he being a master of rhetoric. However, there is
no one in the federal cabinet who brings a more sensitive and
impassioned approach to this issue than Minister Fernand
Robichaud. He has done an absolutely splendid job on this issue.
In the case of the honourable senator's second question, as I
recall it -

Senator Graham: It was a long time ago.
Senator Fairbairn: The program put forward by the Minister
of Human Resources Development is based on the budgetary
provisions that he has enunciated, not something that will be
produced in the future. He has brought forward a program with a
solid foundation, and it will be carried out in that manner.
The hearings that will take place on this issue will be
important and interesting. The issues that will be disputed and
the options put forward during those hearings will be considered
carefully by my colleague Lloyd Axworthy.

-

Some Hon. Senators: Oh, oh!
Senator Simard: If honourable senators opposite want to cut
me off, they may do so. I will tell New Brunswickers that, again,
Liberals have precluded me from asking questions on their
behalf.
Senator Di Nino: Ask the question.
Senator Simard: Is the government considering Bill C- 112 as
budgetary legislation? I think I am on the right track when I say
that budgetary legislation, or policies, or programs flowing from
the budget, can come into force before the legislation is passed.
Is that the nature of these bills, or will the -

Senator Simard: Honourable senators, I will take just
30 seconds. The minister has not answered my second question.
My question is this: When will this legislation come into
force? Will it be January 1, 1996, before this house has had a
chance to approve this legislation, or six months from now, or
two years from now?
Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators, the legislation must
be passed first. It will not come into force until it is passed by
this house.
Senator Simard: Thank you. Stay tuned.
JUSTICE

[Translation]

Will these bills come into force after Royal Assent, or in
January?
[English]

Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators, I should like to go
back to my friend's first question. I do not know where all these
newspaper editors to whorn he refers spend their idle hours, but I
can tell the honourable senator that we have had our
representatives from Atlantic Canada out doing town hall
meetings before, during, and after the release of this information.
They have brought back to the minister the concerns of Atlantic
Canadians. I am told that Senator Rompkey has attended eight
meetings himself, and has informed the minister of the views of
the people of Newfoundland and Labrador. The people from New
Brunswick -

Senator Simard: Answer my question.
Senator Fairbairn: My honourable friend can say what he
wishes, but I would not even attempt to use the word "rhetoric"

RE-ESTABLISHMENT OF LAW REFORM COMMISSIONLEGISLATIVE AGENDA

Hon. Finlay MacDonald: Honourable senators, my question
is for the Leader of the Govemment in the Senate. I think she
will agree with me that there is no government of any political
stripe that has a monopoly on the introduction of dumb
legislation.
Senator Gauthier: Right on.
Senator MacDonald: The last government introduced
legislation which I and a few of my colleagues voted against,
even though it was our own government. It involved the
dissolution of think-tanks and agencies of that particular kind.
Think-tanks are the type of things of which bureaucracies are
terrified.
One of these was the Law Reform Commission. It was with
delight that I learned from either the Red Book or the Speech
from the Throne that the present government would re-establish
this commission.

Senator Haidasz: It has been done already.
Senator MacDonald: 1 realize that, but 1 do flot know where
thai legisiation is exactly. That is the question.
Over the noon-bour period. 1 was listening to commenîs about
sweeping reforms in the Criminal Code, as introduced by
Mr. Rock. Could the minister indicate wbai priority is being
placed on - honourable senators. tbe Table Officer bas just
banded me Bill C-l106, whicb deals with tbe introduction of tbe
Law Reform Commission of Canada. This is an independent
agency. as we know. totally separate from the Department of
Justice. Is tbere any prioriiy for tbis legisiation? Will we receive
it this term? Wbere is it now?

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators. the Law Reform Commission legislation.
as tbe honourable senator knows, is still in tbe House of
Commons. I do flot think the Minister of Justice bas made any
secret of tbe tact that tbe legisiation is a priority with him. The
House of Commons has bad a crowded calendar. 1 agree with my
bonourable friend when he says ibat the sooner ibis commission
is restored, the better. I will be deligbted to take bis concemrs,
togetber witb mine. to the Minister of Justice.

PRIVILEGE
Hon. Marcel Prud'homme: Honourable senators. yesterday
there was a vote. By agreement between the two whips. as
indicated in the Debates of the Senate, the belis calling tbe
senators rang l'or 15 minutes. I bave bad tbis problemn before. 1
bave no wbip. and I was unaware tbat tbere was to be a vote after
a 15-minute bell.
Tbis situation could be embarrassing to mie in tbe future. 1
bave neyer missed a vote since coming to tbe Senate. 1 was bere
until 3 p.m. I was in tbe otber cbamber wbile tbe vote was taking
place. 1 am not informed wben tbere is an agreement between tbe
two wbips. 1 would like to bave as good a record as possible. but
tbere is no metbod of informing me of quick decisions in tbis
regard. 1 regret ibis situation. because 1 usually receive
cooperation from people in tbe Senate.

ORDERS 0F TUE DAY
BRITISH COLUMBIA TREATY COMMISSION BILL
THIRD READING

Hon. Len Marchand moved tbe third reading of Bill C-107.
respecting tbe establisbment of tbe Britisb Columbia Treaty
Commission.

Motion agreed

10

and bill read tbird time and passed.

EXCISE TAX ACT
INCOME TAX ACT
BILL TO AMEND-THIRD READING

Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government) moved tbe tbird reading of Bill C-103, to amend
tbe Excise Tax Act and tbe Income Tax Act.

The Hon. the Speaker: Is it your pleasure. bonourable
senators. to adopt tbe motion'?

Hon. Loweil Murray: Honourable senators. we do not intend
to bold up tbe tbird reading of tbis bill. However. 1 tbink 1 sbould
make a few comments for tbe record.
Tbere bas been an unfortunate and potentially troubling turn of
events relating to ibis bill. Tbis is perbaps tbe resuhi ot everyone
trying t0 deal witb a legistative overload at this time of year. 1
know some of my Senate colleagues on tbis side feel strongly
about tbis matter, and 1 wanted t0 flag some of tbose concerns for
bonourable senators.
At the recent meeting of tbe Standing Senate Committee on
Banking. Trade and Commerce, tbe Canadian Bar Association
presented a bncie wbicb raised wbat 1. as a layman. consider 10 be
serious legal problems surrounding Bill C-103. Witbout going
into detail, tbese issues relate t0 tbe Iiability wbicb tbe bill would
impose on persons sucb as printers. distributors and wbolesalers.
witbout notice of tbat liability and witbout suficient knowledge
of tbeir liability. It is obvious tbat tbe goverfiment is trying t0
find someone from wbomn b colleet tbe potential tax. 0f course,
tbe government is dealing witb a situation in wbicb tbe real
culprits or offenders may be resideni in some other country and
not witbin our ambit. Hence. tbe govemnment cannot colleet the
tax from tbem.
Some of tbese problems bad been idientifled wben tbe bill was
before tbe House of Commons Standing Committee on Finance.
1 sbould note bere tbat jusi before tbey passed tbe bill in tbe
House, almosi tbe last words out of tbe moutb of tbe cbairman of
tbat commiîtee, Mr. Jim Peterson. were - and 1 parapbrase bere
~Weil. perbaps tbey can tix it up in the Senate."
"
Honourable senators. wben the bill came to tbe Senate
commitîee. the Canadian Bar Association. wbicb bad not
presenîed a briefto thIe House of Commons committee. appeared
before our committee and raised ibese issues.

December 14, 1995

December 14, 1995

2509

SENATE DEBATES

2509

SENATE DEBATES

Following the Canadian Bar Association presentation, the
Minister of Canadian Heritage, the Honourable Michel Dupuy
made a presentation. Mr. Dupuy assured us that if we did not
insist on amending the bill along the lines suggested by the
Canadian Bar Association, be would produce a letter of
undertaking to fix up the bill at the earliest or some future
opportunity.
As honourable senators know, in the Standing Senate
Committee on Banking, Trade and Commerce, we are
accustomed to that kind of understanding. As far back as the days
of Senator Salter Hayden's chairmanship, which is when I came
here, the committee routinely accepted from the government
undertakings to make future amendments to a bill that the
committee found deficient in one respect or another. That gave
me no difficulty at all, provided that the substance was
satisfactory, especially to my legal colleagues on the committee.
After at least one false start, we finally got a letter from the
Minister of Finance, Mr. Martin, incorporating the undertaking
that Mr. Dupuy had given. So far so good.
The essence of the undertaking that Mr. Dupuy had given was
that the govemment would exempt the first issue of any future
split-run edition before imposing the taxation penalty on anyone.
I must say that I do not find that particular undertaking offensive
at all, although some do. I do not find it offensive because I
believe that that is the way the tariff code has operated Io these
past 30 years.
The tariff code that has been in place for 30 years to my
knowledge bas never been invoked officially against any import.
What has happened on occasion is that when the first edition of
some split-run magazine comes into the country, Revenue
Canada looks at it, and they flash a red light at the perpetrators.
They tell them, "This is not in compliance with our laws, and
you must stop it or we will invoke the tariff against you; here is
what you must do to find yourselves within the four corners of
our law." That is the way that the Customs Tariff has operated, as
I understand it, and it has been effective. That is the way in
which the Government of Canada has enforced the policy in the
legislation over the years.
Honourable senators, I do not find the undertaking given by
Mr. Dupuy and Mr. Martin offensive on that point, although, as I
say, some honourable senators do.
Aside from that, honourable senators, the Canadian Bar
Association still finds the government's proposals, and
Mr. Martin's letter, substantively defective. That is what I think I
should place on the record.
Under today's date, a memorandum is addressed to the
Chairman of the committee, Senator Kirby, from the Canadian
Bar Association. They state:

As a practical matter, granting a tax exemption for the first
split-run issue would provide little protection. Further, the
alleged undertaking by the Minister that the split-run tax
will not be applied against distributors, printers and
wholesalers -

who really are innocent parties in all this, I think

-

- except upon notice that a particular issue offended the
provisions of the Excise Tax Act will be of little comfort
unless that protection is in the legislation.
They go on to deny the contention of the government that it is
very difficult to hold the publisher, in some cases, liable. They
state:
Provided the legislation was properly drafted and enforced,
the tax burden should ultimately, and effectively, fall on the
publisher. The participants in the distribution chain likely
would take steps to ensure this result (through indemnities
et al.), but the actual collection burden for the tax would rest
with the government rather than with persons only remotely
connected with the publisher (and advertisers).
I will not put the whole letter on the record, but the final
paragraph reads as follows:
While we concede that collection difficulties may occur
under the CBA's proposed amendments, that does not justify
Bill C-103 in its present form. Those same collection
concerns occur in other taxation areas, yet the possibility of
non-compliance in those areas has not led to such extreme
collection mechanisms.
Honourable senators, these legal concerns that have been
expressed by the Canadian Bar Association have been responded
to in various ways by the officials and by the Minister of
Finance. I thought it important to put them on the record. We will
not try, although we did seriously consider, putting forward
formal amendments as proposed by the Canadian Bar
Association, which would force a division and possibly send the
bill back to the House of Commons, with unpredictable results.
* (1520)

Our friends opposite should understand that we have a
potentially serious problem here. If this law is struck down some
months down the road, the government will have nobody to
blame but themselves. I would have hoped that, over the past few
days, the government officials from Mr. Martin's department and
the people from the Canadian Bar Association might have put
their heads together and come up with a satisfactory formula.
This should not be beyond the imagination and expertise of
people in the legal and accounting professions, and among tax
professionals. I do not think they tried hard enough. I hope we
will not pay the price by having this bill struck down in the
courts a few months from now.

Honourable senators know how I feel - and how we ail feel
about the principle and intent of the bill. We are taking a lot
on faith in this matter. Indeed. we have taken on faith from the
Department of External Affairs and International Trade the fact
that this bill is the least vulnerable of ail the alternatives under
international trade law. I hope they are right about that, too,
because if the Canadian Bar Association is right, and if some of
the critics of the provisions as they affect international trade law
are right, then we will be in much worse difficulty some months
down the road than we are now.

offended the provisions of the Act. This will then be
self-policing, since in cases where the publisher is not itself
able to be taxed, and the distributor, wholesaler or printer is
notified instead, that distributor, wholesaler or printer will
simply contact the publisher and decline to print or
distribute future issues unless given appropriate evidence or
assurances by the publisher that the subsequent issues are
not published on a split-run basis, or that the original
assessment was improperly made....

Senator Oliver has taken a keen interest in these matters, and if
he had been in the chamber, I would have deferred to him rather
than intervene myself. He is here now and is nodding his
approval, at least on the last point.

Far from being "design flaws," therefore, we think that
the structure of the Bill is appropriate to make it effective,
and we believe the Minister's undertaking provides an
entirely useful response to the concems raised by the CBA.

We will not hold up third reading of the bill. However, as we
say, on your heads be it if this law runs into trouble some months
down the road.

It is true that this is a case of lawyers disagreeing, and I
suppose that is how they make a living.

Hon. John B. Stewart: Would Senator Murray entertain a
question?

Senator Murray: The CBA would want to see those
undertakings written into the act. That is clear from their
submission.

-

Senator Murray: Of course.
Senator Stewart: I was not in the chamber to hear ail of the
address of Senator Murray so I do not know whether he put
before the Senate the letter from Peter Grant of McCarthy
Tétrault?
Senator Murray: Honourable senators, my friend dignifies
my intervention by calling it an address.
I did not put Mr. Grant's letter on the record, although I do
have it. A more official response to the Canadian Bar
Association would be to place on the record that letter and the
letter from Mr. Martin, along with the considered response of the
Department of Finance found in notes which, to my knowledge,
are in the possession of the Deputy Leader of the Govemment in
the Senate. Perhaps Senator Graham would wish to place those
notes on the record?
Mr. Grant is a lawyer with McCarthy Tétrault who represents a
number of Canadian-owned periodical publishers. He also acts
generally for the Canadian Magazine Publishers Association.
Senator Stewart: I ask the question, honourable senators,
because of Senator Murray's suggestion that we were proceeding
on the basis of faith. I am not a lawyer, so I must be careful about
what I say.
I will read a few sentences from Mr. Grant's letter to suggest
that this is not entirely an act of unfounded faith:
The focus of the bill on distributors and wholesalers
therefore makes eminent good sense, particularly when
coupled with the undertaking by the Minister not to act
against them except upon notice that a particular issue

1 Senalor Murray j

I must say, personally, that we are placing quite a burden on
wholesalers and distributors and the like. They would not be
"guilty" parties.
Hon. Keith Davey: Honourable senators, I have a copy of the
same letter. I accept the observations made by Senator Murray,
which are generous indeed. There may be a problem, but let us
get this bill through now.
Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourable senators. these observations are
valid. It is the government's intention to address this concern by
amending the legislation in the new year to exempt the first
split-run issue of a periodical in cases where a distributor, printer
or wholesaler would be otherwise responsible for paying the tax.
The amendment will assist distributors, printers and
wholesalers by giving them time to become aware of the
existence of new split-run titles in the case of high-profile
magazines such as People or Newsweek. The identity of a new
split-run title would likely become widely known among the
general public.
In the case of smaller trade magazines, industry associations
could monitor the emergence of any new split-run titles and
inform their members accordingly. Where a particular
publication became known as a split-run title, a printer,
distributor on wholesaler could seek a contractual indemnity
from the publisher before agreeing to handle future issues of the
publication. These amendments are intended to be included in
legislation in the new year.
The Hon. the Speaker: Before I put the vote for third reading,
are there any other senators who wish to speak on this bill?

December 14, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

If not, it was moved by Honourable Senator Graham, seconded
by the Honourable Senator Perrault, that the bill be read the third
time now. Is it your pleasure, honourable senators, to approve the
motion?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Motion agreed to and bill read third time and passed.
[Translation]

SMALL BUSINESS LOANS ACT
BILL TO AMEND-SECOND READING

Hon. Céline Hervieux-Payette moved the second reading of
Bill C-99, to amend the Small Business Loans Act.
She said: Honourable senators, this legislative measure is
based on two basic key components of the government's
program: employment and growth. The first of these is the
important role played by small business in the development of
the Canadian economy. The senators are well aware of the role
small business plays in the new economy of Canada in the
1990's, an economy characterized by rapid technological growth,
lively competition and innovation. As the world economy grows,
the small players begin to play an increasingly significant role.
Small business has the flexibility required to take advantage
quickly of new markets, to adapt to change and to exhibit a spirit
of dynamisn and innovation.
Today, Canada bas some 2 million small businesses, one third
more than in 1982. Ninety-nine per cent of all registered
businesses have fewer than 100 employees. Since 1992, small
businesses have created almost all of the new jobs in Canada.
Canadians will continue to look to small business for job creation
and economic growth. Small business and self-employment
create close to two-thirds of private sector jobs and represent
60 per cent of our economic production.
In addition to their essential role in our economy, small
businesses face unprecedented challenges. In a climate of intense
competition, they need to upgrade their administrative capacities,
find employees with skills that suit their market niche, acquire
the technology required for innovation, and very quickly develop
the capacity to take advantage of foreign markets. They have to
bear the burden of regulation, which takes up the precious time
of administrators who ought to be spending it on urgent business
decisions. Despite the fact that the federal tax on small business
in Canada is one of the more generous in the world, the tax
burden continues to be a big problem for small business.
The government has solved these issues as they relate to small
business in various ways, and the senators are familiar with many
of these already. Nevertheless, the bill we are examining today

2511

addresses one of the most universal and confusing problems
faced by small business: the need to find sufficient funding.
Lending institutions have a tendency to look for minimum
risk, and small businesses are generally more risky than big ones.
In addition, the cost to a bank or to a venture capital fund for
preparation of a business plan and financing proposals, as well as
for monitoring the progress of a business, is more or less the
same whether a big or small loan is being applied for. Lenders
are less likely to handle small loans which do not bring them
much profit, yet they are aware that today's small business may
be tomorrow's multinational.
However, lenders have shown that they are quite prepared to
lend to small businesses if the federal government is prepared to
share the risk. That is why, since it came into force in 1961, the
Small Business Loans Act has played a fundamental role in
helping small businesses acquire the capital they need.
The program based on the Small Business Loans Act offers
loans for capital spending. The money may be used to finance
the purchase of property required for the operation of a business.
The borrower may also use the money for renovating, improving,
updating, expanding, building or acquiring business premises. A
small business may take advantage of the program to purchase,
install, renovate, improve or update equipment.
The small business loans program provides lenders with a
government guarantee to cover losses connected with such loans.
The rate of coverage has changed over the years. When the Small
Business Loans Act was passed in 1961, the government
provided 100 per cent coverage. In 1985, the rate of coverage
dropped to 85 per cent. Since April 1993, the rate bas been
90 per cent, and as of January 1, 1996, it will again be reduced
to 85 per cent.
While guaranteeing repayment of loans approved under the
Small Business Loans Act, the government bas established a
program administered by private sector lenders who make their
own decisions on approving loans. At Industry Canada, the Small
Business Loans Administration Branch registers all loans
approved by lenders under the Small Business Loans Act. If a
loan is repaid promptly, the SBLA is no longer involved. If there
is a payment default and the lender submits a claim under the
Act, the SBLA gets involved.
The program is very successful. Since 1961, more than
400,000 loans have been approved under the small business loans
program. These loans total more than $15 billion.
The program has expanded considerably in recent years. The
annual dollar amount of loans approved under the program did
not exceed $100 million till 1978. Between 1978 and 1980, this
amount increased rapidly to $500 million. Between 1980 and
1983, the total annual amount varied from $400 million to
$750 million, except in 1985, when it peaked at one billion
dollars.

Since 1993, as the average maximum loan increased
from $100,000 to $250,000 and the annual income of eligible
businesses rose from $2 million to $5 million, there has been a
considerable increase in the amounts borrowed under the small
business loans program. In 1994, loans totalled $2.5 billion, and
in 1995, they topped $4 billion.

The Small Business Loans Act paid up to 90 per cent of
amounts below $125,000; 50 per cent of the part of the loan
below $500.000 and 10 per cent of loans above $500,000.
Following the amendments, the amount to which the highest rate
of guarantee applies is doubled to $250,000. The highest rate of
guarantee will be changed to 85 per cent on January 1,1996.

This is good news, honourable senators. It means that small
business loans have become an invaluable tool for small
businesses which need capital to expand.

Under clause 4(1). the minister will be able to propose
regulations on the discharge of securities, including personal
guarantees, a lender may require during the term of the loan. This
amendment will mean the administration of the Small Business
Loans Act will more closely follow current commercial practices
where, in certain instances, a borrower may be discharged of a
security required to guarantee repayment of a loan.

However, the increasing popularity of the program bas its
downside. and here I should mention the second pillar of the
government's Agenda: Jobs and Growth, which is a
consideration in the bill before us today. The first pillar is the
need to support small business, and the second is the need to
reduce government spending.
The government feels this is essential to protect the interests of
small businesses. Lenders may decide to pay all or part of the
administration fees instead of charging them to borrowers, so as
to compete with other lenders. Small businesses would, as a
result, have access to financing at a lower cost.
Furthermore, if administration fees are included in the rate of
interest, small businesses would have a better idea of the real
cost of a loan approved under the Small Business Loans Act. As
a result, they would be more inclined to investigate the
possibility of getting a loan at lower cost elsewhere.
Clause 4(3) amending subsection 7(l) of the Act, which
provides that the minister may propose regulations on a host of
subjects, would enable the minister to propose regulations
amending the costs. Under the former legislation, the minister
could propose regulations on the rate of interest. It will be
possible to react more quickly to new circumstances under the
Small Business Loans Act and thus recover costs.
The other amendments concern certain technical aspects of the
Small Business Loans Act.
Clause 1(6) gives the minister discretionary power to ignore
certain minor violations of the law with respect to the payment of
a claim if he considers that they were unintentional, that they did
not change the amount of the loss, and that they were corrected
before default, or within two years of the initial payment of the
loan. This clause provides more flexibility, taking into account
the difficulties that sometimes plague small business.
Clauses 3(1) and 3(2) concern the extent of responsibility for
the percentage guaranteed and serve to reduce the responsibility
according to the amount of the loan. This measure, known as the
rule of 90, 50 and 10 per cent, was established to encourage low
volume lenders to use the program.
Thus, small businesses, particularly those outside major urban
centres, will have greater access to capital.

[ Senalor Hei

\

e u\Payette J

Honourable senators, these amendments will improve the
Small Business Loans Act and make it even more effective in
helping business find the financing it needs. It should also be said
that the amendments will help the Small Business Loans Act
achieve these objectives at no cost to taxpayers. The program
will recover the costs.
We can see how much the program has helped people start up
new businesses and how it bas helped young businesses grow. In
1994, more than 14,000 start-up loans were granted, representing
a third of all loans. Fifty-three per cent of loans were given to
businesses in operation for less than three years.
This is why Bill C-99 is important for the government's
program to promote jobs and growth. It helps adapt the Small
Business Loans Act to the 1990s. Thus this legislation will
remain a practical resource for lenders and borrowers in
weighing the pros and cons of a proposed business. It will give
business people a hand, since access to financing can make the
difference in turning their dream into a reality. It will give small
business access to the capital it so desperately needs in order to
expand. This will be made possible through the lenders' keen
business sense and the recovery of costs.
I hope honourable senators will join me in supporting this bill.
6 (154(»

[English]
Hon. Donald H. Oliver: Honourable senators, I wish to
congratulate the Honourable Senator Hervieux-Payette for the
excellence of her presentation on Bill C-99, to amend the Small
Business Loans Act. Her outline of the bill was so complete and
comprehensive that there is very little that we want to add to it
from this side.
As she bas already stated, the main purpose of Bill C-99 is to
move the small business loans program from partial to full cost
recovery. Through the Small Business Loans Act, the federal
govemment guarantees private sector loans to small businesses.
The program dates back to 1961.

SENATE DEBATES

December 14, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

December 14, 1995

Basically, there are five major things being changed by way of
this bill. The first is that it reduces the maximum loan guarantee
to 85 per cent of a loan from 90 per cent. Second, it provides for
an annual administration fee; lenders would only be able to pass
on the fee through interest rates. Third, it allows the government
to impose a claim processing fee. Fourth, it allows the
government to regulate the release of security and personal
guarantees given by borrowers; this is so that the full amount of
the security will not continue to be held after a sizeable portion
of the loan has been paid off, as in the past. Finally, it allows the
government to make future changes to the level of guarantees
and program fees through regulation.
It is the issue of regulation that the senators on this side would
like to canvass somewhat. It is the understanding of those of us
on this side that the committee will meet tomorrow morning, and
at that time it is to be hoped there will be some representations
from the minister in relation to the regulation-making power. In
addition, we hope there will be some commitment from the
department that we can see these regulations before they are
brought into force.
With those remarks, honourable senators, we would be
prepared to have this bill go to committee.
Motion agreed to and bill read second time.
REFERRED TO COMMITTEE

The Hon. the Speaker: When shall this bill be read the third
time?
On motion of Senator Hervieux-Payette, bill referred to the
Standing Senate Committee on Banking, Trade and Commerce.
NATIONAL HOUSING ACT
BILL TO AMEND-SECOND READING

Hon. H.A. Olson moved the second reading of Bill C-108, to
amend the National Housing Act.
He said: Honourable senators, I want to say a few words of
explanation regarding Bill C-108. I want to assure my
honourable colleagues that my speech is down to about
25 per cent of what I had originally intended to say.
I am pleased to speak in support of Bill C-108, to amend the
National Housing Act. The purpose of this bill is to increase the
ceiling for mortgage loan insurance under the National Housing
Act. This will enable the Canada Mortgage and Housing
Corporation to continue underwriting home mortgage loan
insurance within the legislative limit.
NHA mortgage loan insurance works in the following fashion:
Most lenders cannot grant a mortgage for more than 75 per cent
of the value of a property without mortgage loan insurance. What
this means is that those Canadians who are not able to save a

2513

2513

down payment of 25 per cent would be locked out of home
ownership without mortgage loan insurance.
NHA mortgage loan insurance provides approved lenders with
insurance against borrower default on residential mortgage loans.
With NHA mortgage loan insurance, Canadians can take out a
mortgage with an approved lender, and they need a down
payment of only 10 per cent of the value of the property, or,
indeed, only 5 per cent if they are first-time home buyers.
Bill C-108 will increase the existing limit on outstanding loan
insurance from the current $100 billion to $150 billion. The bill
also includes a provision to increase the ceiling further through
appropriation in the future.
I would advise honourable senators that similar increases have
come to the Senate before, in particular in 1988 and in 1992, and
the amendments on those occasions were uncontested. While the
amendments contained in this bill represent administrative
matters, passage of this bill is essential if CMHC is to continue
the operation of this loan insurance program.
In 1994 alone, CMHC mortgage loan insurance helped to
house over 300,000 Canadian families at no cost to the
govemment. This means that last year approximately 40 per cent
of the residential mortgage stock in Canada involved financing
by CMHC mortgage insurance. Without mortgage insurance,
Canadians who do not have a 25 per cent down payment would
generally never have access to home ownership.
The CMHC mortgage insurance fund is self-financing and
self-sustaining, and therefore does not cost the government
anything. In fact, CMHC policy requires that it be self-sufficient,
financed strictly from the premiums and the fees that it charges
over the long run. Premiums are charged as a percentage of the
loan, based on the amount of the loan and its ratio to the value of
the home. Premiums are set so as to ensure that the fund is
sufficient to cover any claims.
There has been some suggestion that the govemment should
get out of the business of mortgage loan insurance and leave it to
private industry. It is important to point out, though, that without
CMHC providing mortgage loan insurance, Canadians would
face a private sector monopoly which would inevitably result in
higher prices and, unfortunately, fewer choices. Housing would
then be less affordable, especially for first-time buyers who make
up the majority of NHA borrowers.
It is also important to keep in mind that CMHC mortgage loan
insurance provides relatively equal access to mortgage financing
for Canadians regardless of where they live in the country. In
contrast, the chief competitor, the GE Capital Mortgage
Insurance Company, only operates in 18 areas of the country.
Competition is the best way to keep prices at the lowest
possible level and to ensure innovation in the mortgage industry
to meet the changing needs of Canadian housing and finance
consumers.

Besides helping Canadians to become homeowners, CMHC
mortgage insurance has also been a key to the health of the
housing industry in Canada. By fully protecting approved lenders
against default on the part of borrowers, mortgage insurance
encourages investment in residential construction. Housing
constitutes an engine of economic growth responsible for
creating many thousands of jobs and business opportunities in
communities all across the country.
It should be pointed out that housing accounts for about
7 per cent of GDP, over half of all construction, and one out of
every 12 jobs in Canada. House construction and renovation
create jobs and business opportunities. For every $100 million of
construction spending, 2,3 10 person-years of employment are
created on site and in directly related supply and service
industries.
Today, the private housing market is able to meet the housing
needs of the vast majority of Canadian households. There is no
doubt that CMHC mortgage loan insurance has played a critical
role in that achievement.
Honourable senators, I have much more information on this
topic which I would be glad to provide to you. However, I feel I
have said enough to persuade you that this is a very useful
measure, and we should proceed with it immediately.
Hon. Roch Bolduc: Honourable senators, this bill will allow
the Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation to insure up
to $150 billion in mortgages, an increase of $50 billion from the
current limit.
I am fully aware that without mortgage insurance many
Canadians would never get mortgages at anything less than very
high rates of interest, if they could get a mortgage at all. I have
no problem with the CMHC continuing to provide this valuable
service.
This insurance is provided on a cost-recovery basis, although it
should be noted that there were losses in both 1993 and 1994.
Last year, the loss was $93 million, which will be made up in
future years.
I have a problem with the $50-billion increase provided in
clause 1 of this bill, as we are given no information on the
projected growth of the mortgage insurance portfolio.
In 1993, CMHC's only private competitor, the Mortgage
Insurance Company, withdrew from the market. No doubt this
has caused CMHC to think it needed such an increase in its limit,
which was exceeded last year.
By way of an aside, honourable senators. I find it troubling
that CMHC could surpass its statutory limit, as it did in 1994,
and not find out about it until well into the next year.
Honourable senators. in considering this request for a higher
mortgage insurance limit, it should also be borne in mind that
earlier this year a new private-sector competitor entered the
market. GE Capital Mortgage Corporation has acquired the

senator Oison 1

residential mortgage insurance assets of the Mortgage Insurance
Company of Canada. Perhaps $150 billion is needed: perhaps
not.
The main problem with this bill does not lie in the $150-billion
limit outlined in clause 1. The main problem with this bill is
clause 1(b), which says that this amount may be increased at any
time by a one-dollar vote in a supply bill. Honourable senators. I
consider that to be a problem because of the lack of opportunity
to study and debate any future increases. Supply bills in the
other place are introduced and passed under a "guillotine"
process. There is rarely any debate.
Estimates are supposed to be examined in committee. but it is
not unusual for such a meeting not to be called, or for the
committee not to report back. While a supply bill is
automatically passed by the House of Commons on the last day
of the supply period, there is nothing to stop the government
from tabling a supplementary estimate containing a one-dollar
vote just a couple of days before.
Individual items in a supply bill often receive limited scrutiny.
These same supply bills come here and we are put under pressure
to pass them quickly. It is a very serious matter for the Senate to
amend or defeat a supply bill. In any event, supply bills are
supposed to authorize spending, not insurance limits, not
borrowing, and not the creation of new programs.
A one-dollar vote has already been used twice in this
Parliament in connection with the CMHC. Last year, a one-dollar
vote authorized the government to guarantee up to $50 billion of
the residential mortgage insurance portfolio of the CMHC's
former competitor at an estimated cost of up to $350 million; and
a one-dollar vote was used to permit CMHC to borrow up to
$15 billion on the Crown guarantee.
Honourable senators, I am concerned about these and other
uses of one-dollar votes, as they strike at the very heart of
Parliament.
I am sure that, if Senator Stewart were around, he would ask
some questions about it.
In another bill now before us, Bill C-116, a one-dollar vote is
being used to allow the Canadian International Development
Agency to expand its mandate to include "countries in
transition." This would create a whole new program, and should
be the subject of separate legislation. However, there is no
legislation goveming CIDA, a corporation with a budget of more
than $1.5 billion which was created by an order in council. That,
in itself. is a cause for concern.
Earlier this year, one of our senators - I believe Senator
Tkachuk - raised the matter of a one-dollar vote being used to
grant unlimited borrowing authority to the Canadian Museum of
Nature. What will be next? Will it be a one-dollar vote to allow
the Minister of Finance to borrow any amount be wishes? If the
opposition in the other place are asleep at the switch. who knows:
it might happen.

December 14, 1995

December 14, 1995

2515

SENATE DEBATES

2515

SENATE DEBATES

In the debate on this bill in the other place, the focus was on
the proposed $150-billion ceiling. I have news for the Bloc
Québécois and Reform Party members in the other place: Once
this bill passes, the limit may not stay at $150 billion for long,
because it will be easy to increase it. Through a single vote in a
supply bill, $150 billion could easily become $500 billion or
more, or whatever other number the government chooses to
insert.
[Translation]
In terms of parliamentary control, it is not a good method. The
end of a session may not be a good time to review paragraph (b).
This, in my opinion, is rather disturbing. I think that an
appropriation bill is not the best way to authorize additional
amounts for the purposes of insuring loans. It should still be done
through a statutory law providing for a specific amount. If the
amount allowed is exceeded, an additional amount will be
authorized.
[English]
Senator Olson: Honourable senators The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, I wish to inform
the Senate that if the Honourable Senator Oison speaks now, his
speech will have the effect of closing debate on the motion for
second reading of this bill.
Senator Oison: Honourable senators, I listened carefully to
the troubles with respect to the manner in which this legislation
is put forward. I will undertake to ensure that the honourable
senator's concerns are conveyed to those responsible.

them. I know that he is an active member of that committee. and,
therefore, he can do it.
Hon. William M. Kelly: Would Senator Oison entertain a
question?
Senator Olson: Of course.
Senator Kelly: Having just heard Senator Bolduc's remarks
and the response of Senator Oison, I certainly hope that Senator
Oison is not saying that objections of this sort ought not to be
raised in this chamber. He is surely not saying that these matters
should be dealt with in committee, and that the chamber should
not be bothered with these things.
Senator Oison: The honourable senator can rest assured that I
was not suggesting anything of the kind.
Motion agreed to and bill read second time.
REFERRED TO COMMITrEE

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, when shall this
bill be read the third time?
On motion of Senator Oison, bill referred to the Standing
Senate Committee on National Finance.
NATIONAL FINANCE
COMMITTEE AUTHORIZED TO MEET DURING
SITTING OF THE SENATE

Leaving having been given to revert to Motions:

I would point out, however, that when the Estimates are tabled
before both Houses of Parliament, they are sent here, and they
are almost immediately referred to the Standing Senate
Committee on National Finance. If the honourable senator, the
chairman, or any members of that committee would like to
specifically consider the situation respecting CMHC, they may
do that immediately.

Hon. Loweil Murray, with leave of the Senate and
notwithstanding rule 58(1)(f), moved:

The committee does not need to wait for anything. It will
always be subject to the scrutiny of Parliament, but it is up to the
committee to decide which item in that enormous book of
Estimates they wish to select for special study. At any time, the
honourable senator could focus the committee on that particular
subject.

The Hon. the Speaker: Is leave granted, honourable senators?

It is a great experience to attend meetings of the National
Finance Committee. I believe the committee exists for the
purpose of the opposition to select items they wish to investigate
in depth. In most cases, the examination is better than that carried
out in the other place because we examine the expenditure of
money before it is spent. The House of Commons Public
Accounts Committee examines expenditures after the money is
spent, in conjunction with its examination of the report of the
Auditor General.
This house has the opportunity and structure to deal with ail of
my honourable friend's objections at any time he wishes to raise

That the Standing Senate Committee on National Finance
have power to sit at five o'clock in the afternoon, today,
December 14, 1995, even though the Senate may then be
sitting, and that rule 95(4) be suspended in relation thereto.

Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Motion agreed to.
CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENTS BILL
SECOND READING-DEBATE ADJOURNED

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government) moved
second reading of Bill C-110, respecting constitutional
amendments.
She said: Honourable senators, I am pleased to have the
opportunity today to introduce Bill C-110 in this chamber.
Through this bill. the federal government is recognizing the
interests of each of the regions of Canada in future proposals for
constitutional amendments.

As honourable senators know, this legislation is the fulfilment
of one of the three commitments for change made to Quebecers
by the Prime Minister during the referendum campaign. As the
Prime Minister said in Verdun on October 24:
Any changes in constitutional jurisdiction for Quebec will
only be made with the consent of Quebecers.
Another part of that commitment that he made includes the
resolution on the distinct society of Quebec, passed by the House
of Commons this week and now being discussed in the Senate.
Then there is the broader commitment, also discussed on a
number of occasions during the referendum, with regard to the
desire, not only of Quebecers but of aIl Canadians, for a change
in the way their governments work with each other; the
resolution of the issues of overlap and duplication in
jurisdictional areas; and, as my colleague the Minister of Human
Resources Development has indicated by his new employment
measures, the recognition and respect for the responsibility of the
provinces in the areas of education and labour market training.
As honourable senators will agree, the desire for change is not
a sentiment exclusive to the people of Quebec. Canadians in
every part of this country want to see a better working
relationship among the different levels of government. They
want to see more cooperation and less duplication. and more
efficient and effective government at ail levels. These measures
are also a response to that desire. As such, they do not at ail
represent a culmination of our efforts on national unity. Rather,
they represent a new beginning for Quebec and. indeed, for aIl of
the provinces within a united Canada.
With the legislation before us now. the Government of Canada
is sending a clear signal to the people of Quebec and ail
Canadians that we want to move this country forward. This is an
important message to Quebecers in view of the single-minded
obsession of the current government of Quebec. the Parti
Québécois. and the Bloc Québécois to separate that province
from the rest of Canada.
During the referendum campaign, there was - and many of us
were part of it - a heartfelt outpouring of emotion from people
aIl across Canada. They believe in this country. They want
Quebec to remain part of us, and they want us to continue to
build a stronger country together in ail parts of Canada: east,
south, north and west. This bill is an attempt by the federal
govemment to retlect that emotion and reinforce and strengthen
the bonds that exist among aIl Canadians across this land.
The provisions of Bill C-110 are a practical way of
guaranteeing to aIl Canadians, including Quebecers, that we will
not proceed with constitutional change without the support of
each of the regions of this country: Atlantic Canada. Quebec,
Ontario, the Prairies, and now British Columbia. It represents a
strong political commitment. supported and backed up by an act
of Parliament. that the federal government will use its veto power
to protect the regions against constitutional proposais that go
against their best interests. That is what the federal goveriment

[ Senator Fairbairn 1

does in determining what is in the national interest. In the case of
general constitutional amendments affecting the whole country, it
does not make practical or political sense to proceed in the
absence of a national consensus.

As ail colleagues recognize, this legislation does not change
the Constitution of this country. It will not change the current
amending formula, or the delineation of powers, or any other
aspects of our Constitution. It guides, however, the federal
government in making a decision on whether or not to give
federal consent to a proposed amendment.
A concern bas been expressed in some circles that this
legislation could have the effect of hindering the recognition and
the implementation of the aboriginal and treaty rights of
Canada's first peoples. but these rights are already recognized
and protected in the Constitution Act. 1982.
The government takes the position that the inherent right of
self-government is an existing right in the Constitution. My
colleague the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern
Development is working in cooperation with aboriginal peoples
and the provinces to move forward with the job of turning the
recognition of these rights into a reality for the first peoples of
this country. This legislation does not affect that process, nor
should it.
During the discussion on the distinct society resolution.
Senator Kinsella raised the question of how the veto legislation
might be interpreted to relate to other acts of Parliament,
so-called ordinary legislation. One of his concerns, as I
understood it, was whether we could somehow find ourselves in
a position of having to have regional agreement on regular
legislation. I should like to assure Senator Kinsella and others
that the bill before us cannot be interpreted as applying to
anything other than proposed constitutional amendments. What
we are discussing here is exercising the federal constitutional
consent to constitutional change in such a manner as to ensure
that any future proposa will not go forward without a consensus
in each of the regions of Canada.
As honourable senators may know. some western premiers
have suggested that Bill C-110 will make it virtually impossible
in the future to amend the Constitution in certain areas. What
they are referring to is that, by expanding the veto under
Bill C-110, more people will now have to agree to constitutional
change, or at least not to say "no," than under the current
constitutional amending formula, which requires the agreement
of a minimum of seven provinces with 50 per cent of the
population.
As it now stands. the federal govemment holds veto power by
virtue of the fact that it must agree to any proposed change. The
whole point of this legislation is to give each of the five regions
protection, through the loan of the federal veto power. against
future constitutional amendments to which the 7/50 rule applies
and with which the people in those areas do not agree.

December 14, 1995

December 14, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

SENATE DEBATES

Obviously, with more people having recourse to a veto, there
will be more of an emphasis on the provinces finding agreement
among themselves, and clearly, in taking advantage of this new
authority, the provinces would take great care to first give serious
consideration to the consequences.
I wish to say again, as I did last Thursday, that I support the
amendment to this legislation announced last week and passed
this week, which will provide a veto for British Columbia. As I
said before, the object of this bill is to bring Canadians from
every region together, not to make them feel left out. The people
of British Columbia feel strongly that their province has attained
full regional value, and have done so for many years now.
The govemment has listened to the people in Western Canada,
to views from members of its own caucus, and to other
parliamentarians in the House of Commons and the Senate. It
responded to the expressed need to reflect British Columbia's
status as a specific region of this country. With its fast-growing
population, size, economic growth and unique Pacific
orientation, British Columbia deserves to be designated a region.
Senator Carney: We knew that.
Senator Fairbairn: This alteration has not only strengthened
the role of that province in future constitutional discussions but it
has also strengthened the role of each of the three prairie
provinces. The amended bill will give a veto to two or more of
the prairie provinces, Alberta, Saskatchewan and Manitoba,
representing at least 50 per cent of the population. While in
practical terms this results in a strong hand for Alberta in
refusing consent on an amendment, since it has more than half
the population of the area, the other two provinces increase their
influence as well. The requirement is that consent to an
amendment must come from at least two of the three prairie
provinces, and therefore Alberta requires either Saskatchewan or
Manitoba in order to give prairie approval.
For years, the argument coming from that part of the country
has been the same, and it can best be described by the slogan,
"The west wants in." I would submit to you, honourable senators,
that with this amendment, the west is in a much stronger and
more significant position than it has ever been in the past. This
also demonstrates that Prime Minister Chrétien and the
government are ready and willing to be flexible and to respond to
the wishes of a significant and important area of this country.
As we enter into a discussion about veto powers and possible
future constitutional change, we should also remember that
individual provincial govemments already have significant veto
powers in several important areas of our Constitution, and this
legislation in no way diminishes those existing powers. For
example, every province has a veto on ahl changes requiring the
unanimous consent of ail the provinces. These refer to changes in
the office of the Queen, the Governor General, and the
Lieutenant Governor of a province; changes in the minimum

2517

2517

provincial representation in the House of Commons, which
currently cannot be less than the number of senators from each
province; the use of English and French nationally; and the
make-up of the Supreme Court of Canada.
Another type of change contemplated by the Constitution
provides that wherever there are proposed changes that affect one
or more but not aIl of the provinces, those provinces affected by
the proposais have an absolute and unconditional veto over any
such amendment. Some of our colleagues here will remember the
constitutional amendment that was adopted to build the fixed link
between New Brunswick and Prince Edward Island. Prince
Edward Island was guaranteed a permanent ferry service in the
British North America Act. It was a precondition to their joining
Confederation, and an amendment to the Constitution was
required to change the wording, allowing for a bridge to be built
to ensure that a connecting link would still be maintained. The
change was made, the bridge is in fact being built, but it could
not have gone forward if that province had decided to exercise its
veto.
0(1620)

Provinces also have virtual veto power over some amendments
made by the existing general amending formula, which requires
seven provinces with 50 per cent of the population to approve
certain changes. Where an amendment approved under this rule
reduces any provincial power, right or privilege, any province
can opt out and not participate in the changes. If it is on a matter
involving a transfer to the federal level of jurisdiction over
culture or education, the federal government is required to
financially compensate the opting-out province.
The only areas in which there is no existing veto is where the
general amending formula applies, but where the opting-out
provision does not. It is these types of amendments to which the
bill before us is directed. Honourable senators, this basically
includes three categories: One is in amendments which would
add powers to the provinces rather than reduce them or take them
away. We remember that in the Charlottetown accord of 1992, it
was proposed that some such categories as natural resources,
forestry, mining and municipal institutions become provincial
responsibilities which would fall under this particular part.
The second category involves changes in national institutions,
such as the powers of the Senate, the principle of proportionate
representation of the provinces in the House of Commons, and
changes in the Supreme Court other than its composition.
The third category is in the creation of new provinces or the
expansion of the territories of existing provinces. Senator Lucier
expressed his concern last week that adding a regional veto to
this provision could have a serious impact on the Yukon and the
Northwest Territories as they move toward the goal of eventual
provincehood. As I mentioned to him when he raised the issue,

the federal governiment is committed to doing everything it can
to create a degree of consensus that wili allow us to improve our
federation. Senator Lucier and others in this bouse have made ail
of us very consejous of the position of the territories, particularly
on this important question. As 1 said earlier, I believe that the
existing provinces would flot take advantage of their new
authority without giving very serious consideration to the
consequences of doing so.

provinces. While it did not proceed for other reasons, it heiped
set the stage for turther consensus on constitutional change.
Similar proposais were contained in constitutionai studies, such
as that of' our friend Senator Beaudoin and Jim Edwards on the
Beaudoin-Edwards committee in 1991, and, on our side, at the
1992 convention of the Liberal Party of Canada. That became
part of one of our resolutions.

Honourabie senators, the federal government has indicated that
it is Iikely that the regional veto formula contained in this bill
will be on the table at the first ministers' conference which mnust
take place no later than April of 1997. There may be other
proposais on the table, but this would be one of them. As
honourable senators know, that conference is constitutionally
required to discuss the issue of the amending formula. This bill
builds a bridge between now and that conference in 1997.

1 mention these previous proposais, honourable senators, oniy
to make the point that, in presenting this legisiation today. the
Government of Canada is not engaged in promoting some wild
new concept. The idea has been around for many years. 1 believe
there is a consensus that such a proposition makes sense as a way
of further protecting the interests of the regions of this country.
Whiie this iegislation wiii not change the Constitution itself, it
will complement the current amending formula and serve as a
bridge to the day when agreement on constitutionai change and
constitutional amending formulae can be reached.

Honourable senators, there is also the issue of how a province
indicates consent for constitutional change, a matter which has
been raised by Senator Kinsella. Senator Beaudoin and Senator
Nolin. This hill in no way changes the general amending
formula. nor does it change the constitutional requirement that
provincial authorization for making an amendment must corne
through a resolution of the legisiative assembly. Provincial
legisiatures retain ail the powers and vetoes that the Constitution
Act, 1982 provides. The provincial consent, which is being
talked about in Bill C-I as a trigger to proceeding with federal
11
consent to an amendment may. for example. be expressed by a
formai provincial legislative resolution or by a decision of the
provincial government itseif. A third option could be to give
consent by an act of the legisiature.
The government is indicating that before we get to the legai
procedure invoiving an amendment. it wants those conditions
met; that is, that any constitutionai proposai in the areas 1 havec
mentioned is acceptable to the people in the five regions of this
country. If it is not acceptable to the people in one of those tive
regions, we wili not proceed.
The bill we are considering today. honourable senators. is a
self-imposed restriction on the consent authority of the tederal
government. As such, it is very much in the same legislative
category as that of the provisions of provincial govemnments such
as Alberta and British Columbia, which have obliged themselves
to carry out referenda to determine the wishes of their
populations. That is what occurred during the Charlottetown
accord.
What, then. of the regionai veto itself? As honourabie senators
know, the idea of a regionai veto as part of the amending formula
for our Constitution has long been a component of endless
constitutional discussions. The Victoria Charter of 1971
contained an amending formula with a regionai veto. It was
based on tour regions, not five as this legislation provides. That
formula was supported by the federal government and ail] of the

1 Senai or Uaiiinn

Honourabie senators, this bill is about building a stronger
Canada; it is about giving our support as a government and a
Parliament to the aspirations of aIl Canadians. As the Prime
Minister said when he spoke in the House of Commions iast
week:
In Canada, we overcome our difficuities through a spirit of
compromise and mutuai respect. The spirit of cooperation
and partnership that inspires us should motivate us to
continue building this country in an atmosphere of'
generosity and respect. The measures we are taking today
mean change without revolution, progress without breakup.
1 sincerely hope that aIl members of this chamber wiii sec
these proposais f'or what they are -an honest attempt to respond
to the aspirations of Quebec and to ail regions and aIl Canadians,
and an honest refiection of our deep commitment to buiid a
stronger and more united Canada.
Therefore, honourabie senators, I wouid urge ail members to
support this legislation, and to do so in a lime frame which is fair
and reasonable given the commitments made during the recent
referendum in Quebec.

0

160

Hon. LoweIi Murray: Honourable senators. I arn pieased that
my honourabie friend, the Leader of the Government in the
Senate. has touched, if brietly, on some of the concernis about this
bill expressed by the leaders of aboriginai associations. 1 wish to
offer a word from my own perspective on this matter. Even if by
some miracle this formula of regional vetoes were to be
constitutionalized as an amending formula, 1 do not believe it
would be any more difficuit than it is now to achieve what the
aboriginal peoples - and most citizens. 1 think - desire, which
is a constitutionai amendment on aborigin ai self-government.

December 14, 1995

December 14, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

SENATE DEBATES

As matters now stand, such an amendment requires the
consent of the Parliament of Canada and seven provinces having
at least 50 per cent of the population. However, up to three
provinces that dissented from such an amendment could opt out
of it because, obviously, such an amendment would likely affect
provincial powers. If those provinces were British Columbia,
Alberta and Saskatchewan, where most of the aboriginal peoples
live, the constitutional amendment would not be of much
practical effect, if I may put it that way. I tend to think that, as a
practical matter, we need near-unanimity to get an amendment
that will truly protect and serve the interests of the aboriginal
people.
As I said, even if by some miracle that amendment becomes
constitutionalized, I do not think the situation in respect of an
amendment on aboriginal self-government would be much more
difficult.
I want to say that I do understand and appreciate the
frustrations and the concerns of Chief Mercredi, who is First
Chief of the Assembly of First Nations, and who has been the
spokesman on many of these matters. I do hope that the
government will take the extra step to try to reconcile their policy
with the concerns of the national organizations.
However, in the present circumstances, lacking as we do a
constitutional amendment on self-government, I believe that the
path being followed by Mr. Irwin is a constructive one. Perhaps it
is the only practical course open to us at the present time. I may
be wrong about this, but I think there is at least a possibility that
these self-government agreements that may be negotiated with
various aboriginal groups could be entrenched in the
Constitution. I certainly hope so because that, in itself, would
provide a basis of experience with aboriginal self-government
that might well hasten the day when we can achieve a
constitutional amendment on aboriginal self-government.
Honourable senators, as the Leader of the Govemment has
pointed out, the immediate background to this bill is a
commitment made by the Prime Minister during the referendum
campaign in Quebec in October. I want to say a word about the
referendum result, and about the challenge it poses to all of us; a
challenge to the existence of our country and, of course, the
relationship of this bill and the issues it addresses to that
challenge.
Some 94 per cent of Quebecers exercised their franchise in the
referendum of October 25. Almost one half of them voted yes to
a question which was intended to lead to the separation of
Quebec from Canada. For a federation as old as ours, for a
country as successful as ours and as blessed as ours, that
referendum result was just pathetic.
Let us be clear about the causes of this state of affairs: Let us
not be misled by superficial explanations offered by some
commentators attributing the result to charisma, or the lack of it,
of various leaders, or to deficiencies in the campaign strategy and
tactics of the federalist organizers. No doubt such factors did

2519

2519

play a part. However, a 94 per cent turn-out, honourable senators,
is indicative of a highly motivated electorate.
What must concern us is the size of the vote for sovereignty
and the reasons behind it. That vote was driven by a profound
sense of rejection and alienation in Quebec, the most recent
causes of which are the imposition on Quebec of the 1982
Constitution by the federal Parliament and the nine
English-majority provinces, and by the failure of the Meech Lake
Accord in 1990.
We know that a significant proportion of those who voted yes
are not convinced separatists. They are discouraged federalists
who believed that a no vote would be a dead-end for Quebec's
hopes of redress and security in Confederation. Now we must
win back those discouraged federalists. Sometime within the next
24 months, almost certainly, there will be another Quebec
referendum, as Mr. Lucien Bouchard has promised it, or perhaps
an élection référendaire. Some published public opinion polls in
Quebec show that support for sovereignty has increased since the
referendum. The existence of the country is hanging by a thread.
The central issue, the only issue, that has the possibility of
breaking up the country is Quebec's place in Confederation. Yet
almost everywhere one looks today outside Quebec, one sees
reluctance to confront the issue, attempts to temporize with it,
and stratagems to finesse it by addressing other issues. With the
greatest of respect to those who are properly concerned about
such matters as overlap and duplication in the management of the
federation, it was not overlap and duplication that drove
94 per cent of Quebecers to the polls on October 25; it was
something much more profound than that.
Honourable senators, this bill addresses one key element
relating to Quebec's place in Confederation - a formula for
amending the Constitution. The bill would establish a process
that would let Quebec and any one of four other regions control
the federal veto on certain amendments over which every
province does not now have a veto, notably the Senate, the
Supreme Court and the creation of new provinces.
It has to be said about this bill, as it has to be said about the
distinct society resolution which is also before us that, if passed,
these will become acts of the federal Parliament; they will not, as
the Leader of the Government has said, be part of the
Constitution.
0

(1640)

It cannot be said too often that the security which Quebec
needs in Confederation, through recognition of her distinctive
character, and through her role in the amending process, can only
be achieved by entrenching these matters in the Constitution. If,
by the time of the next referendum campaign, the other provinces
and the federal government cannot deliver these fundamental
guarantees, then I believe that the federalist leaders and the
federalist cause in Quebec will have been gravely compromised.
No patriotic rally in Montreal or anywhere else will save us.

Mr. Lucien Bouchard could not be more clear: He is counting
on us to fail in our quest for constitutional guarantees so that he
can give the final, successful push to send separation over the top
in 1997.
If, however, the nine provinces and the federal government can
agree on several key constitutional proposais to secure Quebec's
place in Confederation, and, even better, if they can pass such
proposais through Parliament and their legislatures, preferably
before 1997, then it is Mr. Bouchard and the separatists who will
be on the defensive. If they accept such proposais, then Quebec's
place in Canada would be confirmed and secured. If they refuse,
they would lose the moderates whose support has been so crucial
to them. Either way, separatism will have been defeated.
One hears Prime Minister Chrétien say that he is not offering
constitutional proposais. because Mr. Bouchard and his future
colleagues in Quebec City refuse to negotiate anything other than
separation. However, our strategy in Ottawa and the nine
provinces is not to try to convert Mr. Bouchard and his
colleagues to federalism. We are not trying to satisfy the
separatists. Our goal must be to reinforce the federalists in
Quebec and to win back those whom we lost in the last
referendum. A credible constitutional offer from Ottawa and
from English Canada, an offer that is generally acceptable to
federalists in Quebec. is the worst political nightmare of Lucien
Bouchard and his colleagues.
The government wanted to make good on the commitment of
the Prime Minister in the referendum campaign - a laudable
enough objective. I regret to have to say that they have been
incredibly inept in bringing this bill forward. This bill, according
to ministers, was to be a bridge to the first ministers' conference
on the Constitution, which must be held in 1997. Some bridge.
Without a plan, without a sound foundation, Mr. Chrétien and
Mr. Rock have cobbled together a jerry-built structure that has
not at ail improved our chances of succeeding in 1997, when the
price of failure could be the break-up of our country.
[Translation]
It seems obvious that the govemment had not consulted the
premiers of Alberta and British Columbia before tabling
Bill C- 110 in the House of Commons.
It is also obvious that, in the entourage of the ministers
responsible for constitutional issues, there is a deplorable lack of
advisors who know and understand the western provinces. This is
a serious problem which must be addressed immediately.
In her speech, the Leader of the Government traced some of
the history of that famous Victoria formula. She does not appear
to have drawn the conclusions that are obvious. By trying to
resuscitate the Victoria formula, the government made a huge
mistake.
The concept of a Canada with four regions bas been
unacceptable to British Columbia for a long time. The very idea

1Senator MuraY 1

of regional vetoes, although accepted in Victoria and advocated
by Mr. Trudeau in 1980, was rejected by the premiers in 1982.
I know that the Victoria formula was no more acceptable to the
western provinces during the negotiations that preceded the
Meech Lake Accord in 1987. In the amending formula to Meech,
we applied the unanimity rule to several issues that, since 1982,
could have been amended by seven provinces representing 50 per
cent of Canada's population. These included amendments
affecting the Senate, the Supreme Court and the establishment of
new provinces. Thus, in the Meech Lake Accord, we had
succeeded in reconciling Quebec's demand for a veto with the
principle of equality for the provinces.
Even our colleague Senator Beaudoin suggested this Victoria
formula. I do not challenge its merits. He recommended it in the
report of the Beaudoin-Edwards committee. However, the
provinces opposed it once again. As everyone knows, the tabling
of Bill C- 110 in the House of Commons, two weeks ago gave
rise to an uproar in Alberta and British Columbia. Mr. Rock and
the government finally yielded to the pressures of these
provinces. They amended the bill to grant a regional veto to
British Columbia. However, that late move did not succeed in
calming things down, particularly in Alberta.
As the Leader of the Government pointed out earlier, Alberta,
by virtue of its demographic weight, will control the regional
veto of the prairie provinces. Yet, Premier Klein still seems
opposed to the idea. The premiers of Saskatchewan and
Manitoba, who welcomed the original version of the bill, are now
much less enthusiastic.
If Bill C- 110 had been approved by the House of Commons in
its original form, Conservative senators would probably have
proposed replacing the four regional vetoes with a version of the
Meech Lake formula, namely the unanimity rule.
In its present form, the bill will be reviewed by a committee,
which will hear provincial government officiais. I feel that any
interim, unilateral legislative measure passed by the Canadian
Parliament must have a reasonable chance of being
constitutionalized at the 1997 conference. Otherwise, Bill C-110
would be futile.
[English]
I must say, in light of the reception accorded Bill C- 110 in
various parts of the country, I am not very sanguine that this
formula can achieve the unanimous consent that would be
necessary to incorporate it as part of the Constitution in 1997.
0

(1650)

Prime Minister Chrétien's commitment, as I understood it, was
that until an amending formula acceptable to Quebec was
adopted in the Constitution, the federal government would not
proceed with any constitutional amendments affecting Quebec's
place in the federation - those are my words, my interpretation
of his commitment - without Quebec's consent.

December 14, 1995

December 14. 1995

SENATE DEBATES
SENATE DEBATES

That straightforward commitment could have been backed up
by a parliamentary resolution. We would have had a proper
bridge, in the interests of Quebec, to the 1997 conference.
Instead, the Prime Minister resurrected the idea of four, then five,
regional vetoes. With that idea arose all manner of rivalries,
resentments and divisions.
Bill C-I 10 has failed the most elemental test of a national
unity initiative: It has proven The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable Senator Murray, I hesitate
to interrupt you, but your time has expired.
Is there leave for the honourable senator to continue?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Senator Murray: I thank honourable senators.
It has failed the most elemental test of a national unity
initiative: It has proven to be divisive.
Now, however, it has landed in our laps. A Senate committee,
and ultimately this chamber, must try to deal with it without
doing further damage to the prospects of success - that is to say,
the prospects of Canada's survival in 1997. Let me be clear on
the question of Quebec's veto. Permit me a personal reference. It
was 14 years ago this week that I stood in this chamber, a few
feet from where I am now standing, to oppose the Constitution
Act of 1982. On that occasion, December 7, 1981 - and this is
the first time that I have done this, namely, quote myself - I
said:
Whatever I know of the history of our country, and
everything I know or believe about the nature of our
country, tells me that no Canadian Constitution can endure
that does not have the support of both Quebec and English
Canada in general.
The evidence indicates that this measure lacks the
necessary support of Quebec. The evidence shows that a
majority of the National Assembly of Quebec, representing
government and opposition parties, does not support the
measure.
I then asked:
Does Quebec have a veto? The courts will be called upon
to render a judicial decision on that. I believe that most
Canadians acknowledge, as an essential fact of our national
existence, that Quebec has had and does have a veto on
changes which affect her own status and the powers of her
legislature.
Later, I said:
This measure was born of a constitutional consensus of
which Quebec is not a part. The Charter of Rights, the fact
that we will now have an amending formula, even the
achievement of patriation, in my opinion, are vastly

outweighed by the definitive, historic fact of Quebec's
exclusion and opposition. That being the case, this
Constitution cannot last and will not last. It does not have
the dual consensus of support which is an essential element
of survival in this country.
Honourable senators, not long afterwards, the Supreme Court
ruled that Quebec did not have a veto. For 117 years - that is,
until 1982 - no federal government proceeded with any
significant constitutional amendment over the opposition of
Quebec.
Even Mr. Trudeau spoke, after the fact, of Quebec's
"traditional veto." I think I am quoting him exactly - I had
better be. I am referring here to an exchange of letters that he had
with Premier René Lévesque.
Honourable senators, what we are talking about here and now
in 1995 is whether Quebec, the only majority French-speaking
society in North America, is to have the security of knowing that
its place in Confederation - specifically its place in institutions
such as the Senate and the Supreme Court - will not be changed
without its consent. My party has always respected that principle,
and I trust and believe that we will continue to do so.
Some Hon. Senators: Hear, hear!
[Translation]

Hon. Pierre De Bané: Honourable senators, I listened
carefully to Senator Murray's important contribution. J listened
to his criticisms. I did not agree with some of his comments, nor
with some of the points he raised in this chamber. I must say,
however, that I am grateful for his great sensitivity to Quebec's
situation.
That being said, after hearing him say how things should be
done today, when he himself was very involved for several years
in an effort that failed despite all his hard work, in that area and
in others, J think that we should perhaps leave well enough alone.
We should set an attainable goal rather than aim for an
unreachable ideal. The honourable senator himself spent an
enormous amount of energy on this. He knows how that effort
failed in 1990.
Like the Leader of the Government, I maintain that this bill is
an extremely important step precisely to reassure Quebec about
the changes that could affect it.
As the Prime Minister pointed out, this bill fulfils one of the
three commitments he made on behalf of the federal government
during the referendum campaign: not to go ahead with any
constitutional change that could affect Quebec without
Quebecers' consent.
[English]

The bill does more than respond to that undertaking. It ensures
that constitutional amendments concerning all Canadians will not
be made without substantial support from all regions of Canada.
Quebec included.

As the Prime Minister said, the Government of Canada
recognizes the legitimacy of Quebec's long-standing desire that
its consent be given before major constitutional changes are
undertaken. The Prime Minister went on to note that the
government equally acknowledges the interest of all parts of
Canada in such amendments. If they are to be supported widely
by Canadians, they should be the result of a broad consensus
throughout the country.
It is for these reasons that the govemment is committing itself,
through this legislation, to exercising its veto over proposed
constitutional amendments that do not enjoy sufficient support in
all five regions of Canada.

consent of Parliament and of each province to which the
amendment applies. Again, every concerned province has a veto
and does not need additional protection from the federal
government.
The general amending formula applies to two categories of
general amendments. One includes changes to the institutions of
the national government and expansion of existing provinces or
creation of new provinces. The other covers all other general
amendments that cannot be made under another formula, such as
changes to the division of powers or changes to the Canadian
Charter.
[ Translation]

[Translation]
Honourable senators, in the absence of a constitutional
amendment - which is impossible as long as the Government of
Quebec refuses to consider any constitutional amendment for the
renewal of the Canadian Constitution proposed by the federal
govemment or other provinces - this bill fulfils the commitment
made by the Government of Canada not to assent to any general
constitutional amendment without the consent of the regions,
including Quebec.
[English]
Some will ask: Why a bill rather than a proposal to amend the
Constitution?
9(17)n

While I have just given the very pragmatic reason for the
approach the government is taking, it does lead me to ponder
whether govemments in Canada have perhaps become obsessed
with the idea that Canada's constitutional problem can be
resolved only with constitutional amendment, rather than looking
to more practical solutions. Let us give ordinary legislative
administrative changes a chance.
How will this regional veto work? To answer this question, it
is first necessary to outline the relevant amending formulas found
in Part V of the Constitution Act, 1982. The three key formulas
are the unanimity formula, the bilateral formula, and the general
amending formula. For amendments under the first two, each
province has a veto. The unanimity formula covers such pivotal
matters as changes to the use of French or English at the national
level, the composition of the Supreme Court, and changes to the
amending procedures themselves. None of these can be changed
without the consent of every province. Consequently, provinces
have no need of the federal veto to protect them against these
kinds of changes.
The so-called "bilateral formula" is used to make amendments
to provisions of the Constitution that apply to less than all
provinces. In particular, it covers changes to boundaries between
provinces and to minority language rights within a province.
Changes to this type of provision can be made only with the

[ Senator De Bané

The only right comparable to the veto granted to the provinces
under this new amending procedure is the power to opt out of
any amendment that restricts the rights or legislative powers of
the province. To that extent, the provinces have a real veto
power, as they can prevent a given amendment from being
applied on their territory.
For the rest, a general amendment not sanctioned under the
7/50 general amending formula could, however, be binding on
the provinces. It is against these kinds of general amendments,
which cannot be opted out of, that the bill will afford the
provinces protection through a regional veto.
In short, at present, only the House of Commons has an
absolute veto that it can use against just about any constitutional
amendment. This bill ensures that Quebec, Ontario, British
Columbia. as well as the Atlantic region and the Prairies have a
general veto on any constitutional amendment in areas over
which they currently have no veto or opting-out right. They will
be able to impose this veto on any change to national institutions
such as the Senate, to the foundation of new provinces and to any
change in the distribution of powers or in the rights and freedoms
guaranteed under the Charter. In that regard, I think that we are
going as far in here as in the Meech Lake Accord.
[English]
The bill does not attempt to provide a veto for every province
since this would be simply to compound the problems which
unanimity brings. It does provide an overlay on the operation of
the 7/50 formula which commits the federal government to
ensuring that, before it decides to have the House of Commons or
the Senate consent to an amendment, it is satisfied that the
amendment enjoys the requisite degree of consent from every
region of Canada.
Under the bill. a constitutional amendment would have to
receive the consent of at least seven provinces, including
Quebec, Ontario, British Columbia, two provinces from the
Atlantic region representing more than 50 per cent of that
region's population, and two provinces from the prairie region
representing more than 50 per cent of the prairie population.
before the federal govemment could propose it to Parliament.

December 14, 1995

December 14, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

SENATE DEBATES

2523
2523

I should like to speak about the amendment to Bill C-110
which the govemment introduced to add British Columbia as a
fifth region under the bill. As the Minister of Justice stated when
introducing the amendment, it is the result of the govemment's
having listened to members of its own caucus, members of
Parliament and senators from British Columbia, and to the
population of British Columbia who clearly and convincingly
expressed their views and those of their constituents to the effect
that the time has come for the province to be recognized as a
region for the purposes of this bill.

live because of our quality of life. We should keep making
improvements to the federation while respecting the specific
needs of the various regions of the country.

Bill C- 110 as amended responds to the need for a realistic
reflection of British Columbia's status as a specific region of
Canada. British Columbia is one of the most rapidly growing
provinces, with 12 per cent of the country's population in 1991,
12.5 per cent in 1994, and it is projected to be 13.2 per cent in
2001. While it is smaller than Ontario, at 37 percent, and
Quebec, at 25 per cent, it has almost 42 per cent of the
population of the western provinces and it is projected to have 45
per cent by 2001. The size and the population of British
Columbia, its contribution to the Canadian economy, and its
unique Pacific positioning were factors that contributed to the
recognition of B.C. as a fifth region.

Hon. Pat Carney: Honourable senators, I rise today to speak
against Bill C-110, respecting constitution amendments. This is a
very short bill; only six paragraphs long, slightly over one page.
It contains only two clauses. The first clause deals with the veto,
and the second clause deals with definitions. Yet, this tiny scrap
of paper, this bridge to Confederation, has already proven
capable of demolishing much of the goodwill created by the very
close referendum result in Quebec. I will give you a random
sample of headlines from British Columbia's media at the time:
"Chrétien's West blunder sparked anger in B.C."; "Adding fuel
to B.C. ire"; "Chrétien on Monday worsened Confederation's
chances"; "Misdeal"; "Dated ideas underlie Ottawa's willingness
to offend B.C."; "Chrétien plan 'insult to B.C."'; "Mighty
misguided"; "Mr. Chrétien knows how to unite B.C., if not
Canada"; "Plan condemned as offensive view of the country."

Under the bill, the federal govemment could not proceed to
introduce an amendment if one of the five regions refused to give
its consent, even if the requirements of the 7/50 formula were
met.
[Translation]

The bill does not amend the Constitution; however, a statute
enacted in Parliament does create a legal obligation and the
federal government will be required to comply with that law.
There has been some suggestion that this represented an
unconstitutional obstacle to an area of federal jurisdiction or an
indirect change to the procedure of constitutional amendment. It
is our feeling that the bill would hold up to a legal challenge of
its validity in that it is within the normal purview of Parliament
to limit or direct the actions of government. The bill is not
intended to create a revision procedure which would take
precedence over the amending mechanisms set out in the
Constitution. It is merely a mechanism which can guide the
federal government with respect to a provincial and regional
consensus sufficiently strong to justify a general constitutional
amendment approved by the Commons and the Senate.
As far as Quebec is concerned, this veto is along the same
lines as our intent in the same respect in the Meech Lake Accord.
[English]

There will be a first ministers' conference by April, 1997 on
the amending formula. At that time, constitutional changes could
be discussed. However, this govemment did not want to wait so
long. We should not forget that the current Quebec government's
agenda is separation. Canada has to find ways to modemize our
great country in unity. Our country has been recognized by the
United Nations as one of the best places in the world in which to

•

(171)

I would ask honourable senators to support this bill which
gives to Quebec a regional veto and which goes a step further in
giving regional vetoes to Ontario, British Columbia, the prairie
region and the Atlantic region.

I could go on, honourable senators, but you can see why the
efforts of the govemment to unite Canada on such an important
issue has already been destroyed by the contents of this bill, even
in its amended form.
I will use my time, honourable senators, to tell you what
British Columbians have been saying about this bill. However,
before I talk to you today about the reaction of British
Columbians, I wish to make two important points.
First, British Columbians generally love our country. Canadian
unity is important to us as a Pacific province, and we are proud to
be part of Confederation. As a matter of fact, we feel that we
contributed to Canada when we joined Confederation in 1871 as
an equal, independent colony. We can claim to have created the
present concept of Canada by joining Confederation. We made
possible the vision of a country that stretched from sea to sea to
northern sea. Some of us can ask with justification: Where would
they be today - the rest of Canada - without us? What if we
had joined instead with our natural, geographic allies, Alaska and
the Pacific Northwest? Would the prairie provinces, dependent
on ice-free Pacific ports to ship their grain, have joined central
Canada when they were carved out of the Northwest Territories?
Would the maritime provinces have stayed in a smaller scale of
Confederation, or would they have joined the expanded United
States of America?
This is a point that was understood by our first Prime Minister,
Sir John A. Macdonald, who was very conscious of the role of
British Columbia as a land bridge to the Pacific. In talking about
the railway, which was the rainbow that was to unite us, he wrote
to Sir Stafford Northcote, who was Chancellor of the Exchequer
in Benjamin Disraeli's cabinet. He said:

Until this greai work is completed. our Dominion is little
more iban a -geograpbic expression." We have as much
interest in B. Columbia as in Australia. and no more. The
railway once finished. we become one greai united country
wiîb a large interprovincial irade and a common interest.
You can sec. honourable senators. thai Canada has always
benefited from the participation of British Columbia.
However, the view of British Columbia and our angry reaction
to mucb of ibis bill reflects the view that il bas caused disunity. It
bas strained the tired and tomn body of Confederation. It looks
backward to the past wben we should be looking te, the futurc.
Not only is the content oU ibe bill flawed because it wiIl impose a
straitjacket on the future and make it difficuli to change our
Constitution by the refit-a-veto to the provinces, but the very
process itself is tlawed. 1 want to remind bonourable senators
bow important it s.
Our Contèderation bas evolved from the original Fathers of
Confederaiion and the original union. We added British
Columbia. We carved the prairie provinces oui of the plains and
out of the Nortbwesi Terriiories. Even this week in the new
territory of' Nunavut. wbicb bas evolved in the lasi few years
trom the Nortbwest Territories and the old Rupert's Land, the
people of thai area bave voted and chosen Iqaluit as the new
capital of their region. We bave, as the Leader of the Government
in the Senate pointed oui. the issue of' provincial status for the
Yukon. In order îo grow. tbrive. adjusi and adapt. we need a
Constitution and a confedieraîion that can be more flexible. This
bill will bobble that approacb.
In terms of the tlawed process. it is of' course a unilateral
attempt by the federal govemminent to impose change tbrougb tbe
back door whicb it cannoi achieve tbrougb the front door.
1 was a member of the cabinet that introduced and brougbi
forward Meecb Lake. 1 was a member of the Parliameni that
approved Meecb Lake. 1 did thai not because it was so greai for
Quebec, wbicb of course we believed it to be, but becausc we
believed that it was good for the unity of' the entire country. It
was good for B.C.. Alberta and ail of the provinces. We do not
bave ibat view of the bill before us today.
Before 1 discuss the view of British Columbians. I would
mention some of tbe views put forward by the Liberal
government. First. we bave the statement by the Prime Minister
tbai this bill, even as amended, is good for Britisb Columbia. He
told British Columbians:
Some people are trying to characterize this tremendous
progress as a setback. Do not believe tbem. It is the
opposite. It's the start of a new era of British Columbia's
strengtb in Canada.
We always knew we were a region. 1 do not sec why ii took 50
long for other people and Liberals in central Canada and O)ttawa
to understand that. Tbere was very clear knowledge amion_2 B.C.

1 Seiiai

Caî ne\ 1

Liberals that we were a region. 1 amn surprised that Prime
Minister Chrétien did flot understand ihai.
Then we have the comments of the minister responsihle for
national uniiy. This is what the western member of the unity
committee of cabinet. Anne McLellan. is reported as baving said
in The Ottawa Citiz-en about British Columbia's dlaim that it
sbould be ireated like Ontario and Quebec:
"I don't understand the basis for their dlaim. It can't be
population. because their population is nowbere close 10
Quebec's and Ontario's. It's much dloser t0 Alberta's than
either of the other two. They are flot the bomeland of one of'
Canada's two founding people or Canada's firsi peoples. 1
tbink one needs to inquire about the basis of the dlaim..."
If Minister McLeIlan had been a fittie more attuned to British
Columbia's reality, she would know thai one of our dlaims is that
B.C. was probably the original multi-cultural. mulii-ethnic part
of Canada. Chinese Canadians were among our earliest
non-aboriginal citizens. Fifteen hundred ot them died attempting
to build the railway that united us. une for every 450 yards. As
Liberal Ted McWhinney pointed oui. that is one of the unique
aspects of our province.
Hedy Fry, is MP for my former seat of Vancouver Centre
Senator Cools: Splendid woman.
0

1720)

Senator Carney: We have a good record in Centre, three oui
of three in the Iast few elections. two Conservatives. one Liberal.
Ms Fry bas written in the Vancouver Sun that. while many
were angry that Britisb Columbian MPs voted to move
Bill C-I 110 to committee, one only bas to look ai the process, and
she goes on te, argue that the bill was dealt witb in a reasonable
way in committee. We sbould be aware of the fact that the bill
was introduced in the House of Commons on November 29 and
reported and passed witb amendments on December 13.
In that period. there were only 1l days to deal with this tiny
piece of paper whicb is now before us, and wbich has sucb an
impact on British Columbians as well as the rest of Canada.
Let me just share witb you some of the views of British
Columbians reviewing this bill. First of ail, we have Premier
Harcourt wbo, on December 12, just this week, wroie to the
Righî Honourable Jean Chrétien. He pointed oui that it was
gratifying that the goverfiment decided to recognize British
Columbia as a region in ils own rigbt. as has been noted in this
house. He wrote:
However. the change from four regions to five does not
address the ilindamental problems inherent in the regional
veto approacb itself. The proposed veto structure puts us in
a situation wbere change in the interests of the West are
almost impossible.

December 14, 1995

December 14, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

SENATE DEBATES

I should like to remind honourable senators about the
responsibility of this chamber. This chamber represents the
regions. British Columbia has now been recognized as a region
by the Liberal government through this bill. Does that mean we
will get our share of regional representation in the Senate? The
region of British Columbia, as defined by this bill, only has six
senators. The region of the maritimes has 30. Is that equal? Is
that fair? The region of Quebec has 24 members, and so does
Ontario. Even the tiny provinces of Atlantic Canada have more
senators than the region of British Columbia.
I am asking the Liberal members of this chamber: Where will
they be if British Columbia decides that it wishes to have more
senators, perhaps elected senators? Prime Minister Mulroney was
the first prime minister to appoint to this chamber an elected
senator, the late Stan Waters from Alberta. If initiatives like that
of Reform MP Jim Abbott proceed, so that senators can be
elected in B.C. and then appointed to this chamber by the Prime
Minister, will you be so supportive of our efforts? Will the
Quebec government and the province of Quebec be supportive of
our efforts to increase our share of Senate seats to that consistent
with a region? We will wait and see.
Senator Berntson: Of course, you would have to give six
more to the prairies.
Senator Carney: The senator from Saskatchewan agrees that,
of course, the west's representation in the Senate will require
beefing-up, according to this regional veto which has been
introduced.
To return to the Premier's letter to the Prime Minister:

2525

2525

And now, of course, British Columbia.
The regional veto is an attempt by the federal govemment
to amend the constitutional amending formula through the
back door. Because Bill C-1 10 will change the way that the
amending formula works in practice - for instance,
proposed amendments which meet the current 7/50 test
could be defeated by one region exercising its veto. The
7/50 amending formula was adopted in 1982 and the
provisions for regional vetoes were rejected.
The proposed scheme does not even pass its own test. The
scheme does not have the requisite approval of the western
region.
If this piece of legislation were in effect today, it could not
pass because British Columbia, as the region, opposes it and
Alberta, the de facto majority in the region of the Prairies,
opposes it, let alone Quebec's opposition. This law could not
even pass under the test of its own implementation. That is the
flaw that Minister Petter so correctly points out in this bill.
We have also heard from Mel Smith, who is known to many of
you. He was, for a period of 20 years, the senior constitutional
advisor to four successive British Columbia premiers. He is very
familiar with this issue. He points out:
The fact of the matter is that in 1981 govemments
considered that they put the amending formula issue to rest
after 54 years of negotiations.

The position of British Columbia remains that Bill C-110 is
seriously flawed and should be withdrawn.

We already paid for the amending formula that we have in
the Constitution. We should not have to pay again in 1997 to
remove this offensive legislation from the books.

The minister in B.C., Andrew Petter, who is chair of the
cabinet working group on national unity, did not have an
opportunity to even appear before the Justice Committee. I am
pleased and gratified that members of this chamber will give him
that opportunity to appear before the committee set up by the
Senate. His position is that:

The amending formula agreed to at that time was the quid
pro quo for accepting Mr. Trudeau's Charter of Rights, a
formula that recognized to a substantial degree the judicial
equality of the provinces with a high degree of flexibility so
as to protect provincial interests.

...simply granting British Columbia a veto, while preferable
to the current proposai -

He makes the point which I and other British Columbians have
made:

That is, before the amendment.
- will not address the myriad of other problems with the
federal government's proposed "rental" veto.
The fact that Ontario and Quebec obtain provincial vetoes
while other provinces are relegated to being part of a region,
creates two classes of provinces, with special status for
Ontario and Quebec.

British Columbia badly needs reform of the National
institutions of the country so as to give it more power in
Ottawa. Obviously, the results of Bill C-110 would be to
effectively block such reform and, in my view, will lead to
national disunity.
The media has shown surprising unanimity on this issue. I
have picked as a representative sample the Vancouver Sun's
editorial of December 8, 1995.

The Hon. the Speaker pro tempore: Senator Carney, I regret
to interrupt but the rules require that I point out that your time
bas expired.

responsible for the problems in Quebec shows their total
ignorance of the West and all we stand for.
This is one from Vancouver:

If there is leave, the honourable senator may continue. Is leave
granted?

Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Senator Carney: Thank you, honourable senators.
To continue the quotes from British Columbians, the
Vancouver Sun reported, under a headline called "Veto Mania"
stated:
More regions, more vetoes equal more trouble for
Canada.
Well, snap our suspenders, British Columbia has got its
veto. Maybe now we can get together with Ontario and
Quebec and form a support group, called it Provincial
Survivors of Confederation.
If vetoes are the name of the game, B.C. should have one.
But vetoes are a bad idea. Canada already bas a
Constitution; it already has an amending formula.
Proliferating vetoes impede change, and change - a
representative Senate, for example - is part of what B.C.
needs to take its rightful place in today's Canada. Prime
Minister Jean Chrétien should have taken all the vetoes
away, not given out another one.
...This veto may temporarily cool British Columbians
down, but because it inhibits change it will neither appease
them nor cure what ails the country.
I can remind members of this chamber that five B.C. Reform
MPs broke their party ranks and voted for the amendment that
gives B.C. a regional status. Of course, they voted against the
bill.
Then I have a series of comments from people who have either
written or phoned us. Any B.C. senator will tell you that the
switchboards have been lit up ever since this bill received first
reading. From Vancouver:
Mr. Chrétien has made a well-intentioned, but
nonetheless disastrous, attempt to satisfy Quebec's
insatiable demands while still keeping the rest of Canada in
line. The result, I predict, will be a Canada even more
deeply divided and troubled than that which already exists.
I have a letter from North Vancouver:
To have the Prime Minister, accompanied by Sheila
Copps with tears in her eyes, blaming the West for being

I am writing to express to you my concern and anger at
that the way the CHRETIEN GOVT. continues to ignore the
voice of B.C.
I think the time has come for B.C. to have a massive
temper tantrum, and we must make it clear to OTTAWA that
we will be heard.
Another one, addressed to the Prime Minister, again from
North Vancouver, dealing with the constitutional proposal, reads:
The essence of this proposal was already roundly defeated
in the Charlottetown Accord referendum of 1992 in all parts
of Canada. In addition. the process by which this initiative is
being put forth is flawed. You have not consulted with the
people or the government of Quebec, nor have you done the
same thing with the other nine provinces and territories.
I want to remind honourable senators in this chamber that
British Columbia rejected the Charlottetown accord by a higher
percentage than any other part of the country, so you can see why
they are particularly bitter about this. This letter shows why they
are upset.
Another letter from Victoria:
I am outraged by these peremptory and dictatorial actions
by the Prime Minister. I think be must have lost his mind. I
am aware that be bas made wild, irrational and totally
insupportable promises to the people of Quebec on the eve
of their provincial referendum. One would have thought
fatigue would have explained much of this - and a general
inability to understand that "if you are up to your ass in
alligators, perhaps it is time to drain the swamp!"
I could go and on. Here is another one, again from the Lower
Mainland area:
I applaud your comments. It's exactly how I feel. It's how
people in my office feel, and it's how the people I ride the
bus with feel.
Honourable senators, I will not take up your time. There is the
odd letter that speaks in support of the distinct society status. but
I think that honourable senators understand the general tenor of
the remarks in British Columbia.
Honourable senators, you have been very patient. I wish
finally to say that the approach to which British Columbians are
responsive is one that looks forward. The approach to which
British Columbians warm is one that I use. and it is one that our
leader Jean Charest uses. It is an approach that simply takes the
position that we should abandon these out-of-date instruments of

December 14, 1995

2527

SENATE DEBATES

2527

SENATE DEBATES

December 14. 1995

the past, and instead look for new ways, new instruments, new
visions of Canada. Let us move on in a way that will create true
unity. Otherwise, I can advise the members of this chamber that
the question that my colleague Lowell Murray put earlier, the
question of what do the federalists in Quebec want, will have to
be broadened because the issue will then become, in the next
referendum, what do the federalists in Canada want in order to
keep the country together?
I can tell honourable senators that the answer in British
Columbia quite probably will be that we want equality among
Canadians. It is an essential part of our culture, our ethic, our
history, and it is something which I do not believe British
Columbians will willingly give up.
On motion of Senator Graham, debate adjourned.
NATIONAL HOUSING ACT
BILL TO AMEND-REPORT OF COMMITTEE

Leave having been given to revert to Presentation of Reports
from Standing or Special Committees:
Hon. Lowell Murray, Chairman of the Standing Senate
Committee on National Finance, presented the following report:
Thursday, December 14, 1995
The Standing Senate Committee on National Finance has
the honour to present its
TWENTIETH REPORT
Your Committee, to which was referred Bill C-108, An
Act to amend the National Housing Act, has, in obedience
to the Order of Reference of Thursday, December 14, 1995,
examined the said Bill and now reports the same without
amendment.
Respectfully submitted,
LOWELL MURRAY, P.C.
Chairman
THIRD READING

The Hon. the Speaker pro tempore: Honourable senators,
when shall this bill be read the third time?
Hon H.A. Olson: With leave, now.
The Hon. the Speaker pro tempore: Is leave granted,
honourable senators?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Motion agreed to and bill read third time and passed.

[Translation]

QUEBEC
MOTION TO RECOGNIZE AS DISTINCT SOCIETY ADOPTED

On the Order:
Resuming the debate on the motion of the Honourable
Senator Fairbairn, P.C., seconded by the Honourable Senator
Graham,-That
Whereas the people of Quebec have expressed the desire
for recognition of Quebec's distinct society;
(1) the Senate recognize that Quebec is a distinct society
within Canada;
(2) the Senate recognize that Quebec's distinct society
includes its French-speaking majority, unique culture and
civil law tradition;
(3) the Senate undertake to be guided by this reality; and
(4) the Senate encourage all components of the legislative
and executive branches of govemment to take note of this
recognition and be guided in their conduct accordingly.
Hon. Lise Bacon: Honourable senators, from time
immemorial, nations have had to face the challenge of designing
a system under which their citizens are able to live their lives and
develop their potential while respecting certain fundamental
values. Those values include peace, freedom, tolerance and
justice.
Our federal system respects those values, as all Canadians will
testify, whether they live in Newfoundland, the Yukon, British
Columbia or Quebec. Our federal system does not harm the
interests of a single region in this country. On the contrary, it has
enabled them to develop their potential. Every part enjoys the
advantages of the whole, not only because of the possibilities
within the system but also because of the system's outside
connections.
On the international scene, all provinces enjoy an enviable
position thanks to Canada's privileged position in the world. The
federal government does not watch the evolution of this country
as a spectator. It supports and encourages that evolution. Far
from being frustrated, the development of the various regions
within the Canadian federation is stimulated.
At a time when the current trend is toward the formation of
large units and no individual country can claim to have exclusive
control of its affairs, it is surprising that some people should see
our federal system as constricting.
Our system is certainly not constricting, nor is it doomed to
"eternal stagnation," since federalism is, by definition, flexible
and adaptable.
As our leader said last week, and I quote:
Historically, the differences between the provinces have
caused our federal system to seek different means, options
and arrangements.

Our federal system is ideally suited to people of different
languages and cultures who wish to be free to discuss and settle
their differences in a spirit of compromise and mutual respect.
We have done so in the past and we will continue to do so.
On November 27, the Prime Minister announced three
initiatives in response to commitments made during the
referendum campaign in Quebec. I would like to comment on the
first commitment, which was to recognize Quebec as a distinct
society within the Canadian federation.
The people of Quebec have expressed the desire to be
recognized as a distinct society. The motion on distinct society
asks us to recognize that Quebec is a distinct society within
Canada; that this distinct society includes a French-speaking
majority, a unique culture and a civil law tradition: and to
undertake to be guided by this reality; and to encourage all
components of the legislative and executive branches of
government to take note of this recognition and be guided in their
conduct accordingly.
This motion goes to the very heart of Quebec's distinctiveness.
It stipulates that Quebec's distinct society includes a
French-speaking majority, a unique culture and a civil law
tradition. This definition of Quebec's distinctiveness is not
restrictive and is true to reality.
Canada has a tradition of respect for diversity and the
Canadian reality includes the Quebec reality. Although there is
no talk of constitutional changes at this stage, it is important to
emphasize that this measure represents a solemn commitment
that would set a standard in the drafting of laws and regulations.
I would like to remind you that the Quebec govemment under
René Lévesque, used this approach to recognize the rights of
aboriginal people, and that no one bas ever questioned his action.
Some are opposed to this motion because they play down its
importance. Mr. Bouchard himself was very clear on this. He
said that he would not support any constitutional changes.
Others, however, are opposed to this initiative because they sec it
as broader than it really is.
In an article published in the December 2 edition of La Presse,
Albert Malouf, a former judge with the Quebec Court of Appeal,
said this:
In my opinion, the reason why the other provinces reject
distinct society is that they do not understand its meaning
and fear that it may give Quebec additional powers....
People of goodwill negotiating in good faith should be able
to overcome this problem.
I will conclude my remarks, because I know that several of my
colleagues want to speak, by saying that one thing is for certain:
Quebec's distinctiveness is an obvious, inescapable reality. The
motion before us would simply recognize this fact.
Hon. Gérald-A. Beaudoin: Honourable senators, we have
hefore us a motion on the distinct society.
The text of the motion is factual: it identifies a fact. This is a
minimum. The concept has raised manv heated discussions. This
1 Senator Bacon 1

time around, we are not asked to entrench this concept in the
Constitution. This is a formal statement made by both federal
houses.
Naturally, many will deplore right off the bat the fact that the
motion is not constitutional in nature. Many would have
preferred the wording used in the Meech Lake Accord or in the
Charlottetown accord. the former going somewhat further than
the latter. I have no intention of reopening a debate that bas filled
a great many pages, if not entire bookshelves.
The principle of this statement is not bad. Quebec must see
Canada as it is; Canada outside Quebec must see Quebec as it is.
This is the basis on which the future of Canada must be built.
The October 30 referendum is forcing us today, more than
ever, to sec things as they are.

[En glish]
The concept of distinct society is not new. In 1867, in the
British North America Act, the administration of property and
civil rights was awarded to the provinces. In the same act,
section 94 dealt with the possible uniformilization of the
common law system, but civil law was left out because Quebec
had a different system of private law.
Since August 1, 1866, Quebec bas had a civil code. It was Sir
George Etienne Cartier who, in the Parliament of the province of
Canada, had proposed some years earlier the codification of the
Quebec French civil laws under the name of "Code civil du
Bas-Canada."
The concept of distinct society goes as far back as the Quebec
Act of 1774. Can you imagine? The Parliament at Westminster
adopted a statute restoring the French laws in Quebec, then a
colony of the British Empire.
Lord North was a man of vision. My French ancestors in
Quebec sided with the British Crown at the moment the
American insurgents sent delegates to Montreal to convince les
canadiennes to be on their side.
The word "distinct" does not mean superior or inferior. It
means different; not more, not less. It does not give additional
legislative powers or competencies.
[Translation]
Ilt has the merit, however, of identifying, of setting the people
of Quebec within the Canadian federation. It has symbolic value,
of course, but it also bas value in itself. It indicates that, in
Canada, there is more than one community, starting with the
aboriginal people who have been living on this land for
millenniums and whose constitutional rights were recognized
through section 35 of the Constitution Act, 1982.
Is it better to mention the distinct society or not? I think we
should, because it reflects a reality. Given that a Constitution is
tailor-made, it is better to sec the stuff it is made of.
The concept of multiculturalism was entrenched in 1982, in
section 27 of the Charter of Rights. Why not the distinct society
then? For the time being, we have before us a formal statement
binding on Parliament.

December 14, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

The courts, and the Supreme Court of Canada in particular,
have been juggling with the concept, for example in the Ford
decision, where the Supreme Court addressed the issue of the
French face of Quebec and the marked prevalence of the French
language. In its 1916 reference on insurance, the Judicial
Committee of the Privy Council interpreted the expression "trade
and commerce" used in section 91 of the Constitution as
meaning only extra-provincial trade, to protect Quebec's civil
law, they said.
Just one word on the different meanings of "distinct society"
in the Meech Lake Accord and in the Charlottetown accord.
[English]

In the Meech Lake accord "distinct society" is not defined as
such; it is, however, the case in the Charlottetown accord. When
you define, you always restrict. In the Meech Lake Accord there
is an equilibrium between "distinct society" and "linguistic
duality" while in the Charlottetown accord "distinct society" is a
concept, a declaration, amongst others in the Canada clause.
[Translation]

I want to say a word about the difference between collective
and individual rights. The Supreme Court of Canada stated on a
few occasions that, as a rule, the 1982 Canadian Charter of
Rights and Freedoms concerns individual rights. So far, it has
only recognized as collective rights the denominational rights
protected by section 93 of the 1867 Constitution Act, and the
rights of aboriginals entrenched in section 35 of the Constitution
Act, 1982.
However, it ruled that certain individual rights, including
linguistic rights and freedom of association, involve collective
aspects.
I support the recognition of Quebec as a distinct society. I hope
that this recognition will be entrenched in the Constitution at the
earliest opportunity.
[English]

I wish to add a few words on Bill C- 110, which is related to
the other. That bill will add one more element to a formula of
amendment which is already heavy. The Parliament of Canada,
which bas a veto in most cases, is ready to not use its
prerogative, if one of the five regions of Canada is against a
proposai of amendment. However, who will speak for Canada?
[Translation]

The veto formula would not apply to sections 38(3), 41, 43, 44
and 45, but it would, of course, apply to sections 38 and 42.
I always felt we should do something to facilitate the
entrenchment of a veto for Quebec. That province has wanted a

2529

veto since 1927. In my opinion, if the Constitution provides that
Quebec is distinct and has a veto, and if an adjustment is made in
the distribution of powers, Quebecers will choose to remain in
Canada. Otherwise, there is a strong possibility that they will
decide to leave Canada when another referendum is held in that
province.
The next constitutional rendez-vous is scheduled for
April 17, 1997. It is mandatory. We must immediately work to
ensure that, in 1997, we can offer a veto to Quebec in those
sectors where its survival is at stake, or at least, in the areas
which reflect its distinct nature. We are very close to the
April 17, 1997 deadline, when we will have to review the 1982
amending formula. The decisions that will be made in the months
to come will impact on those of April 1997.
We must take a more in-depth look at this issue before going
any further. A Senate committee could do that.
I am still not convinced that the measure is unconstitutional.
However, I think it borders on the unconstitutional. It puts
together two formulas, sometimes by relying on the Constitution,
sometimes on an act. This is another reason why we should
review this issue in committee and consult a few experts.
I hear the argument that no constitutional amendment can be
proposed because Mr. Lucien Bouchard will never accept
anything. I say that if Canada, apart from Quebec and the
Canadian Parliament, agree on significant constitutional
amendment proposais, that is on the distinct society, on a veto
and on an adjustment in the distribution of powers, Mr. Bouchard
will react. And if he does not, Quebecers will.
[English]

The Hon. the Speaker pro tempore: Do I understand that it
has been agreed not to see the clock?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Hon. Jerahmiel S. Grafstein: Come, let us now praise
Canada, for Canada is a distinct society. The rest is commentary.
Canadians, themselves, can count the ways.
Hon. Noël A. Kinsella: Honourable senators, I rise to speak in
favour of the resolution before the Senate proposing that the
Senate recognize Quebec as a distinct society. In my perspective,
it would have been much more preferable had this reality become
part of the Charter of Rights and Freedoms in 1982, much the
same way as section 27 of the Charter instructs the courts
through the Constitution itself that they must interpret ail of the
rights of Canadians in a manner consistent with our multicultural
heritage. The model I prefer would see, right in the Constitution
itself, recognition of Quebec as a distinct society, with the same
kind of interpretive instruction flowing with it.

In my view, it would have been preferable if all governments
in Canada had supported the Meech Lake Accord which
proposed the explicit recognition of Quebec as a distinct society.
as alluded to by Senator Beaudoin and others.
Further, we in New Brunswick supported the 1992 referendum
on the Charlottetown accord at the ballot box, which accord
included the recognition of Quebec as a distinct society.
Honourable senators, I stand as a New Brunswicker who is
proud to be supporting this resolution, for it speaks to a reality
which I am convinced will some day find expression in the
Constitution of Canada, becoming much more than a resolution
or a guide for parliamentarians in this chamber.
However, what are we to say to those who argue that such a
recognition gives to Quebec rights that other Canadians do not
have? First, let us reflect on section 27 of the Charter. Section 27
does not give special rights to ethnocultural communities in
Canada. It does guarantee that all Canadians will enjoy the rights
contained in the Charter, and that the courts and tribunals must
interpret those rights in a manner consistent with the
multi-cultural heritage of Canada. Therefore, the distinct society
resolution, although one which only gives guidance to
Parliament, will be utilized in very creative and imaginative
ways so that the initiatives of Parliament are undertaken in direct
response to the needs of the people of all parts of Quebec and all
parts of Canada.
In particular, this resolution gives us the opportunity to
recognize that all rights are not self-executory, that there are
many rights which are programmatic by nature. For example. in
Canada, the right to education is recognized as a human right.
That view is reinforced by the fact that we are a signatory to an
international covenant on human rights which recognizes the
right to education. However, the right to education is
meaningless if we do not have an education system, a school
system. Thus, governments and society have to intervene to give
flesh and bones to a right such as the right to education.
0

(18I}O>

It is hoped that Parliament will seize the day and respond
directly to the needs of the people. whether they are in
Rivière-du-Loup, Chicoutimi, or in any other part of Canada, and
that it will do so in a manner that is guided by this resolution.
Parliament has to be creative, it has to seize the day - it must
take control of the national agenda on national unity. No longer
will it be acceptable for the federal government, or Parliament, to
be paralysed by the type of timidity and hesitation shown during
the October 1995 referendum in the province of Quebec.
Leadership in the securing of economic, social and political
stability within the Canadian federation must come from the
Government of Canada. It must come from al] members of the
Government of Canada. In my view we have to be supportive of
the govemment and the Prime Minister when he or she is right
and has a program which is supportable.
We know that the leadership must come from the Government
of Canada. We know that the Government of Canada has
responsibility and speaks for the people of Quebec, as it speaks
for the people of New Brunswick and the people of whatever part
of Canada in which they find themselves. It is not simply the
[ Senator Kitnsella

j

government of New Brunswick that speaks for New
Brunswickers: the Government of Canada speaks for New
Brunswickers as well.
The people of Quebec have their spokepersons in Parliament.
We know, from his own words, that the leadership that is
necessary as we enter the twenty-first century will not come from
Lucien Bouchard. He has told us bluntly that he will not accept
"any constitutional agreement short of recognizing Quebec as a
sovereign equal to Canada." He also said, "I am a sovereigntist"
when asked if it would ever be possible for him to sign a deal in
which Quebec would remain in Confederation.
We have to recognize that kind of reality. Parliament must act,
as must the federal government. There must be a plan and a
vision. Leadership cannot be provided on an ad hoc basis. We
need to set out creative principles, rich principles. I believe the
recognition of Quebec as a distinct society is such a principle.
We need also to set out some of the non-negotiable
parameters. We must explode, we must expose, we must expunge
the error, the myth, that a province of Canada has the right to
determine unilaterally whether to secede from Canada. This view
should no longer be given any currency in this country. The time
has come to reject categorically the myth perpetuated by the
separatists that there exists for any province the legal right to
secede.
[Translation]
Hon. Jean-Robert Gauthier: Honourable senators, I am
extremely pleased to take part in this debate, and extremely
pleased with what I have been hearing up until now. I have heard
comments, arguments, analyses of the October 30 referendum.
These were both interesting and pertinent. What has been said up
until now has been highly interesting, highly pertinent, highly
constructive, and I congratulate my colleagues on this.
It is too easy to analyze the situation as some newspaper
editorials have done, concluding that there is an obvious malaise
in Quebec, the result of a campaign by francophone nationalists
with a very ambiguous referendum question. Others will say another facile conclusion - that the 1995 No campaign did not
have anything in it to attract Quebecers.
It is also very easy to say that renewed Canadian federalism
was not properly explained to Quebecers. It is also too facile an
explanation to say that the sovereignist politicians were more
successful in selling their ideas, better organized, and that the No
campaign did not work.
I have heard all of these things, as you have, and there is
probably an element of truth in all of them. But it must be
understood - and this is essential - that Quebec is a distinct
province, distinct from the other nine. Yes, there is a serious
malaise. All one has to do is read the daily newspapers in
Quebec, or switch on the radio or TV. It is a source of concern to
Canadians. It is a source of concern for a francophone living
outside Quebec. I am part of this great country of Canada. I am
also part of a francophone minority which is mainly centred in
Quebec but which also exists. and will continue to exist. outside
Quebc. This is my Canada and I am free to live in it in the
official language of my choice, no matter where I am within its
borders.

December 14, 1995

December 14, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

SENATE DEBATES

2531
2531

We must listen carefully to the message of Quebecers. Some
may be surprised by what they describe as "vibrant nationalism,"
but I am not. When I was just a little fellow growing up in
Ottawa, I remember the discussions in my grandfather's house
about French Canadian nationalism. At that time, though, they
called it "French Canadian patriotism." Nationalism was not in
fashion. Until the Bloc populaire came along, patriotism was the
buzz word. "Nationalist" came along later when the Bloc
populaire had made the term wider known.

is. I do not need to give you any examples. Read the words
spoken here, and you will have the whole background. If that is
not enough, read the excellent article in The Ottawa Citizen
yesterday, December 12, by Peter G. White entitled
"Accommodating Quebec, no threat to anglophones." You will
see my argument is supported by other reasonable people,
anglophones, if you like, but people who understand this fact, as
did Senator Murray, today, and as does Senator Kinsella, and as
do a number of Liberal senators who have spoken.

Remember the plebiscite in 1942. There were some very
heated discussions at the time. In the evening, after Un Homme et

I belong to the school that believes in taking action. I am well
aware that Mr. Bouchard is forbidding and even cool to any
constitutional amending formula. There is no need to get excited,
we can do it easily; there is the 7/50 formula. We can certainly
put it to the people of Quebec. The amendments, which must be
implemented by 1997, are feasible.

son péché, I do not know whether people who grew up in this

area remember, but at seven o'clock, we listened to Un Homme
et son péché, and after the program we would sit around and talk.
There was no television, and we would turn off the radio at the
end of the program.
I grew up in a francophone area. I was marginalized in a
community consisting of a majority of anglophone Protestants in
Ottawa. In the province, this community used religion and
language as a reason to exclude Catholics and francophones from
publicly funded education.
I remember a statistic that became an incentive for me to enter
politics in 1966. The study showed that only 14 per cent of
Franco-Ontarians finished Grade 10, and that shocked me.
Eighty-six per cent of francophones in Ontario did not finish
Grade 10, but it was not their fault. There were no schools. As
for speaking French in Ottawa, west of the Rideau Canal we
were told to "Speak white." I remember because I was bom and
raised here.
Quebec was distinct because I could go to Montreal where,
more often than not, I managed to be served in French. I had a
few experiences which indicated that even in Montreal, at
Morgan's for instance, it was not always easy to make yourself
understood. But I remember distinctly that I felt uncomfortable
about going west of the canal in my own city. I thought: I live in
a village; Lowertown is a village.
I saw poverty and illiteracy; it was almost a way of life. That
has changed dramatically. In my lifetime there have been
remarkable changes in our institutions, our schools, our health
services and general attitudes. Religion is no longer referred to as
a divisive factor. People hardly even mention language as a bone
of contention in Ottawa. I think we have learned to live together.
Quebec is making it fairly plain that things are not right there,
and we will have to listen as it speaks. The message is not really
so complex.

The Prime Minister said three things in the referendum: it
would seem Quebec wants to be a distinct society - it already

[ Senator Pearson ]

It is a good start having a resolution passed by both houses of
Canada's Parliament. It is also a good idea to table it with
Bill C-110. I support this provision.
I close my remarks by saying that we have a few years, barely
two, to understand one another. Let us pay careful attention and
make sure this country continues to be the experience of the
century, a fantastic one, in terms of Canadian federalism where two peoples learn to live together, to share and to respect
on another.
a

igi)

[English]

Hon. Landon Pearson: Honourable senators, as I rise today to
speak briefly on the resolution to recognize Quebec as a distinct
society, I do so with the conviction that I have always recognized
and valued Quebec as distinct.
Although I grew up in southwestern Ontario, I spent part of
my childhood at school in the Eastern Townships where I learned
to appreciate young both our differences and our similarities.
Later, I spent a summer as a student at Trois-Pistoles, improving
my French and exploring the lower St. Lawrence.
More important, most of my adult life was spent in the
Canadian foreign service where, once abroad, francophones and
anglophones alike find out how much more we are like one
another than we resemble any other nationality. What we also
discover serving together outside Canada is that it is the very
distinctiveness of Quebec society that seems to have created
those special characteristics we share as a nation, those values of
tolerance, generosity and openness that continue, in spite of our
current cranky mood, to attract immigrants from all over the
world.

It is our experience in evolving side by side by side that has
led us to develop the variety of national and provincial
institutions that have been needed to preserve the distinctiveness
of Quebec and the rich variety of the rest of the country. It is my
firm conviction that all of us, including Quebec, have benefitted
from the ways in which these institutions have shaped, and
continue to shape, our political and cultural life.
If we fail to honour the reality that our whole is greater than
the surn of our distinctive parts, then we will all be diminished.
[Translation]
Yesterday my husband and I got a card from a former
colleague, a Quebecer now posted in Europe. He writes, and I
quote:
From afar, Canada, so rich and varied, is a sorry sight.
One might say it is looking for a fortune or a treasure... that
it already has in its possession.
[En glish]
Honourable senators, we are at a crucial moment in our history
as a nation. Last week, a letter in The Globe and Mail quoted my
late and much lamented father-in-law when he opened the
federal-provincial conference on the Constitution in 1968. He
said:

youth, that we consult with them for ideas on how to preserve
our country, which will be theirs. in ways that fulfil the
aspirations of its various communities without losing the virtue
of the whole.
I have had considerable experience organizing consultations
with children and young people on important issues, as have a
great many others on both sides of this house. This is not a
partisan issue.
I should like to return to this chamber in February after the
break with a strategy for the implementation of this idea. In the
meantime, I would appreciate knowing who among you would be
interested in developing a strategy with me.
While recognizing the sad fact that the level of political
literacy among the young is abysmal. their idealism remains
high. We could draw strength from that and offer them our
knowledge and experience. Working together, the elders of the
nation and the young of the nation, would do honours to us all.
Hon. Senators: Hear, hear!
[Translation]
Hon. Marcel Prud'homme: Honourable senators, today we
have heard some rather stirring speeches, and some shorts ones.
While I am usually quite long-winded when I talk about Canada,
I will try to be brief.

There are times in the life of a country when the assurance
of good intentions, the discharge of normal duty and
acceptance of routine responsibility are not enough. What
such times demand is the exercise of courage and decision
that go far beyond the needs of the moment. I believe that
this is such a time for Canada. Here the road forks. If we
have the resolution and the wisdom to choose now the right
course and to follow it steadfastly, I can sec few limits to
what we may achieve together as a people. But if we lack
the courage to choose, or if we choose wrongly. we will
leave to our children and our children's children a country in
fragments, and we ourselves would have become the
failures of Confederation.

When I hear a senator say, before sitting down, "Canada is a
distinct society, thank you," it gets my dander up. I heard this too
often in the other place from people who, in my opinion, never
understood anything about what Canada is all about.

It is to those children I would now like to turn. I have a
suggestion to make to the Senate. For some time I have been
asking myself how the Senate can best promote a stronger sense
of national unity. The Senate has many strengths. We are a
national institution with an important role and honourable
traditions. We represent all the provinces and territories. We also
represent much of the cultural and ethnic diversity of Canada.
My committee experience has shown me that we actually know
how to listen.

It is not because I am a French Canadian that I need a crutch to
claim this fact. I am as proud as anybody else in Canada.

What I should like to propose is that we engage in an
intergenerational dialogue, that we talk with our children and

I truly intended not to take part in the debate. God knows how
often I have talked about the distinct society. I was among those
who had doubts. I am proud enough; I do not need to be told that
I need a crutch. This is why, at first, I was against this motion.
When I understood the true motivation of my colleagues in the
other place who were opposed to the distinct society, it dawned
on me that they did not understand anything. Thus, in reaction, I
had to be in favour of something I truly viewed as a crutch.

Canada, the country of my dreams, is morose. Canada, the
country said to be number one, is looking for its identity. And
yet, what kind of example are we giving other countries? People
as different as myself and His Honour the Speaker pro tempore,
who incidentally speaks several languages, including mine, can
claim anywhere in the world that we are both equally proud to be
Canadians. This is the image we want to give to the rest of the
world. Neither claims to bc superior to the other. It would appear
that it is no longer a sin to talk about "le peuple du Québec."

December 14, 1995

December 14. 1995

SENATE DEBATES

SENATE DEBATES

We do not understand each other in Canada about the meaning
of the terms "nation," "country," and "people," Yet, in the
resolution, I saw for the first time the word "people" which
seemed to frighten so many people before. Now it is being used.
What is going on? I always said the opposite, the
"French-Canadian people," I never said the "Quebec people."
The French-Canadian people is a reality. Look at Senators
Gauthier, Bacon, Hébert; look at ail our senators sitting here; that
is a reality. Some are from Quebec, their heart is from Quebec.
0

(1820)

The heart is from Quebec and the rest comes from different
regions of Canada. Such is the French-Canadian people. It is not
limited to Quebec. Some seem to want to confine it to Quebec.
The tragedy is that, ail together, we are unable to find a solution
to a problem which, in fact, if you compare us to the other
countries of the world, is not really a problem at ail.
We have been talking about that since I became an MP. I
raised the question in one my friend's classes in Alberta - yes, I
said it, I said "my friend," Mrs. Carstairs - but not in Manitoba;
in Alberta.
A while back, probably 20 years ago, I visited the country with
the distinguished chairman of the Special Joint Committee of the
Senate and of the House on the Constitution, Senator Molgat. I
believe it was in 1971. Everything is written there.
I never paid homage to my friend Jean-Luc Pepin. I was
waiting for an adequate moment. He really understood the
essence of Canada. He was extraordinarily receptive. With John
Robarts and the commissioners, he really did understand what
Canada is ail about. We have forgotten about him.
So many missed opportunities over the last 20, 30, 40 or 50
years. We always go back to the same question when, in fact, it is
so easy to understand.
[English]

There are in this country nine provinces - you may also say
two territories, but nine provinces where a majority of the people
speak English. Good. There is one province where the people
speak le français.
[Translation]

That is the distinct society, that is the difference. If the late
Jean Marchand were here today, he would explain that, with a
much more heartfelt outpouring of emotion than I can, to those
who still have not understood what Canada is all about.

2533
2533

I am a federalist, and here I am trying to convince you about
things that you are probably convinced about. Imagine what it
would be if I were not a federalist. I believe in my country. It is
mine!
When I look at Senator Pearson, Senator Losier-Cool, Senator
Anderson, Senator Milne and aIl the new senators who have
come to join us, I can assure you of one thing: this country is
mine as much as it is yours. I will not let it go easily. But we
must understand together what it is ail about.
In my province, more and more people refer to the State of
Quebec. They are already far ahead of us. They say that it is
over; they are already living their independence. That is a
dangerous mirage. They are already living their independence,
while we are making efforts every day.
To your surprise undoubtedly, when I speak about Canada, I
am ready to face any sniggering, any grin; I was about to say, any
disgust.
This country is mine. My ancestors built it on other people's
land. We must understand and give justice to the first citizens
who were here before the first French settlers. I am ready to say
that to the Indians, and I did so. I am ready to return to them with
humility! These French settiers on other people's land gradually
built a country and others came to join them in famous battles
that some people would like to continue in 1995. These are
historical facts. We must look at them and accept them. Millions
of other Canadians came to join us.
I am one of those who would like to say everywhere: "I am
proud to be a Canadian." This would please my friend Senator
Phillips. This is what we say spontaneously everywhere in the
world except in Canada. As soon as we, French Canadians, are
outside the Canadian borders, what do we say? We say that we
are Canadians. We ail call ourselves Canadians; my Canadian
passport; I am a Canadian. It is when we retum to Canada that
we insist on calling ourselves French Canadians.
[English]

That seems to excite so many people in Western Canada, the
fact that I did not do the translation when they say French
Canadian. French Canadian! Everyone gets dizzy. I have heard it
ail around Canada on hotlines. Yet that is only a translation for
which we are not responsible. I am not responsible, Senator
Phillips, for the translation "French Canadian" [Translation]

I say Canadien français! Canadien français! If only we could
explain how important these differences are, there would be
much more understanding.

[English]
Honourable senators, very humbly, I say to you all that the
Senate has a role to play at this time in our lives. I said it this
morning at a committee meeting. I said it to the Justice
Committee. I say it here. We have a role to play. We have
something to offer to Canada.
Never mind the insults of some commoners from the House of
Commons where I spent 30 very happy years. Never mind them.
When I look at all of you individually, I do believe we all have
something special to offer to this country. If only we could utilize
all our talents. I believe we should strike special committees to
travel across Canada, composed of nonpartisan people who do
not wish to simply score points against each other.
0

(1830)

These people will know how to remain married to each other.
We should, as Senator Pearson said earlier, allow younger people
to speak to us, dream in front of us, or be sick in front of us if
need be. We must have the patience to listen to them.
I went through that with the Honourable Speaker of the
Senate, Senator Molgat, and Mr. MacGuigan, who is now a judge
of the federal court. It gave Canadians an opportunity to vent
their anger in whatever way they wanted. I know. honourable
senators, that we can listen to their concerns with patience and
we can help them truly understand what this country is all about.
The result at the end of the exercise will always be positive.
I have no authority, but surely the leadership of both parties
can come up with a better idea or refine my idea as to what the
Senate can do. Do we have a more gentle, knowledgeable or
respected person both in so-called "English Canada" - I say that
because I do not like these expressions - and in "French
Canada" than Senator Roux?
[Translation]

had not planned to take part in the debate. My speech on
Canadian nationalism is ready. I drew my inspiration from
Jean-Luc Pepin. I would not like to sow discord among
Canadians, however. I would not like to say how angry Senator
Grafstein's speech made me. I completely disagreed with him
because his speech was so full of contempt for us. 1, for one, do
not hold anybody in contempt. Quite the contrary.
Honourable senators, I am imploring you. At this tragic time in
our history, it is a crime not to find a solution to ensure the
survival of our country. Millions, if not billions, of human beings
are watching us in disbelief. What is going on in Canada?
Of course I will vote in favour of the motion. I will not go and
get a band, or the media, or the troubadours. Really, this amounts
to recognizing such an obvious thing. For some it is little, while
for others it is already too much. Maybe this is what Canada is all
about. If we were all unhappy at the same time. there would be
something wrong. If we were ail very happy, there would be
something wrong. If one were happier than the other, it would
certainly not work.
Since it seems that everyone is a little unhappy, this may be
the new chance for survival for countries as different as ours. I
thank you for your patience. I implore you and I ask you to
meditate on the meaning of Hanukkah, Christmas and New
Year's Day.
[En glish]
When we come back in 1996, perhaps we can rededicate
ourselves to Canada. There are various religions where people
rededicate themselves to Jesus. Well, let us rededicate ourselves
to Canada!
Our appointments as senators are almost lifelong. We receive
much from the people of Canada. Surely we must do as our
gracious Queen asked us to do and put aside our preoccupations
and rededicate ourselves to those we serve by finding a solution
to our constitutional dilemma.

In the great and beautiful artistic community, he can speak of
authority and wisdom. The sane is true of each and every one of
us: we all have our own little area, our own affinities in this
country. We can al] talk to one another in this country. I am
certainly not the one who is going to throw a big party this
evening and say: "Is it not wonderful, we are distinct." Are we
even able to recognize the obvious fact that there are people in
this country who speak French. They could have leamed Papuan,
it might have solved the problem. Some speak better than others,
that is true. They can be encouraged to improve their language
skills through our cultural institutions, by fighting to preserve
Radio Canada, the Canada Council and the National Film Board.
The little people must not be made fun of; they are watching.

Hon. Orville H. Phillips: Honourable senators, I should like
to ask Senator Prud'homme a question. As always, I was very
impressed with his remarks.

When I hear public figures use coarse language thinking that it
brings them closer to the people, I can assure you that these
people despise us. They know that our French is somewhat better
than theirs. I say it in iy perhaps roundabout, disjointed way. I

Senator Prud'homme: It was an accident of birth, I am sure!

| Senator PuId'homme 1

In my brief remarks the other day, I did not have an
opportunity to come to the portion in my notes dealing with
ancestry. I believe Senator Prud'homme and I share a common
view and that is, regardless of your ancestry, today we are
Canadian. It does not matter whether my ancestry was English,
Welsh or, on my mother's side, Scottish. Today, I am a Canadian.
Senator Prud'homme's ancestry is French, but he always says
that he is a Canadian first.

Senator Phillips: Yes, but you are a Canadian first. Do you
deny that, senator?

December 14, 1995

December 14. 1995

SENATE DEBATES

SENATE DEBATES

Senator Prud'homme: Absolutely not!
Senator Phillips: I am fed up with people who say they are
French, English or Italian.
Senator Bosa: I knew you were going to mention that.
Senator Berntson: What about Norwegian?
Senator Phillips: Yes, Norwegian, and maybe even Ukrainian.
To me, there comes a time when you must say that you are
Canadian. You can be proud of your ancestry, but you must also
be proud of your present allegiance.
Is it not time for the Canadian government to terminate
funding to these groups who want to be Norwegian or Italian
first? An Italian can come to Canada and get citizenship very
easily, as can people of many other nationalities.
S184M

Is it not time to stop saying that we are French, English, Italian
or Greek? Why not just say we are Canadians and be proud of it?
I am proud to say that I am a Canadian. Is my honourable friend
not proud to say the same? Having asked the question, I am sure
that I know the answer.
Senator Prud'homme: Senator, earlier I told the chamber
about my delightful weekend in Tweed. I did that for a purpose.
I love Tweed. It was my third visit there. I was told that I could
run for deputy reeve of Tweed. Tweed is in the maple syrup
country of Ontario. It is very close to Belleville.
I made my statement about Tweed today for a purpose. Not
many French Canadians go to Belleville these days, let alone in
the past, to make speeches, and certainly not to Tweed. I spoke in
Tweed about pride, about the fact that I had come there to
witness their pride, because they were kind enough to witness my
pride.
My friend Senator Phillips and I have known each other since
1960. When we met for the first time, people expressed surprise
at the fact that I had spoken to him, as if it were impossible for
the two of us to speak to one another. Over the years, we have
teased each other about our respective views. We have travelled
together to China and other places and come to know each other.
Yes, senator, I am proud to be Canadian. You say that you are
tired of hearing people say, "I am French." I have never said that
senator. I have said, "Je suis très fier d'être Canadien français."
Senator Phillips: I did not accuse you of that.
Senator Prud'homme: Senator Gauthier and other
traditionalist French Canadians will know why we do not accept
your suggestion that we should all simply be Canadian, that there
should be one Canada. This has connotations. "Let's all be
Canadian" has always been interpreted by French Canadians as
meaning "Let's all be English and Protestant." I am sure that

2535
2535

Senator Robichaud could tell us many stories about that. It is
natural for us to say, "Je suis Canadien français," not "I am
French Canadian." There should be no translation for that, not in
Winnipeg and not anywhere else.
I would rather not speak to the issue of multiculturalism now,
because that will require a very long speech.
I remember how we became multicultural. We were bilingual
and bicultural, and one morning we got up and found ourselves
multilingual and multicultural. That was in the great days of the
great leader Pierre Elliott Trudeau.
Mr. Nunziata is now campaigning to abolish multiculturalism.
Before I answer you, senator, I will listen to the views of
Mr. Nunziata in the other chamber, who is an advocate of
abolishing multiculturalism.
I am as proud as Senator Phillips is to be Canadian. If the
honourable senator and I travelled across this country, we could
show people what Canada is all about. People need only listen to
both of us and shake our hands to know immediately the kind of
country in which we live.
Senator Phillips: Senator Prud'Homme made reference to our
association. He may have left on the record the impression that
we were not friends after our first meeting. I wish to correct that.
We became immediate friends.
My family came to Canada in 1830. My father's side spoke
English; my mother's side was Scottish, and they spoke Gaelic.
As I grew up, the elders spoke "the tongue." That later
disappeared. I guess my generation was too stupid to learn "the
tongue."
My point is that although I know the honourable senator takes
pride in being French Canadian, and I do not disrespect him for
that, I believe it is time that we all began to say we are Canadian.
I believe that friends, such as Honourable Senator Bosa,
Honourable Senator Haidasz and others, have spent too much
time on their ancestry and not enough time on being Canadian.
Would you agree with me, honourable friend?
[Translation]

Hon. Jean-Maurice Simard: Honourable senators, I will only
take a few minutes to echo the comments made by some of my
honourable colleagues and to state my support for this motion
recognizing Quebec's distinct society.
I will not go over again the good reasons my colleagues set out
during debate on this motion. I wholeheartedly agree with the
reasons linked to the history of the Province of Quebec and the
history of Canada since 1867, to the culture of Quebec, to the
Quebec institutions which have supported development not only
in Quebec but throughout Canada, and to the uniqueness of
Quebec.

Since I was born in Quebec, I feel that I would not be fulfilling
my duties if I were not to rise and support this motion for all the
reasons mentioned by my colleagues.
I think this motion should have been moved some other time,
rather than at the end of a session. Several Canadians believe that
it would have been better for this motion to be debated at length
in the House of Commons and in the Senate. Also, I think this
motion should not have been the result of some kind of panic and
improvisation, as so many Canadians from Quebec like to remind
us.
I hope there will be unanimous consent in the Senate to adopt
this motion. It is a small step, I agree, but it is a step in the right
direction. I would have liked this motion to recognize the people
of Quebec and not just Quebec's distinct society.
Honourable senators will remember that in December of 1992
the Senate considered the opportunity to entrench the recognition
of the Acadian society in New Brunswick. Following this debate,
Parliament entrenched not only the recognition of the Acadian
people but also some of the collective rights of the Acadian
community.
I was very pleased and very grateful, but also disappointed,
because the then provincial govemment did not see fit to include
all of the collective rights guaranteed hy the provincial
legislation which had triggered off the debate, resulting in a
government motion and finally leading to the entrenchment of
the recognition and the rights of the Acadian community.
Senator Robichaud was here at the time. He knows this
provincial legislation very well, as do all my other colleagues
from the maritimes. particularly those from New Brunswick.
This provincial legislation, called Bill 88, recognized not only
the existence of the Acadian society in New Brunswick but also
several collective rights.
In any case, the House of Commons and the Senate completed
their work on this matter in 1992. In February 1993, a reception
was held at Rideau Hall to celebrate and applaud this recognition
of the rights of Acadians in New Brunswick.
In closing, I hope that, after the adoption by both houses of
Parliament of this motion recognizing Quebec as a distinct
society, the day will come soon when the people of Quebec are
recognized as one of Canada's founding peoples. Perhaps, at the
same time. the Acadian people in Canada will also be
recognized, in addition to the recognition of the existence of
certain collective rights for Acadians in New Brunswick.

First. I want to thank honourable senators for their patience.
We did not see the clock at six o'clock.
We have one more item which we would like to deal with, if
there is agreement, and that is Bill S-14 standing in the name of
Senator Haidasz. Senator Haidasz tells me that he will only be
about ten minutes. I would ask all honourable senators to bear
with us.
Hon. Orville H. Phillips: May I just ask the Honourable
Deputy Leader of the Government for clarification? When he
says tomorrow, I presume that we will adjourn to ten o'clock in
the morning?
Senator Graham: To clarify the situation, the rules call for us
to sit Monday to Friday. When we adjourn on Thursdays, unless
there is a special adjournment motion, we normally adjourn until
nine o'clock Friday morning.
In order to clarify the situation further, I move, with leave of
the Senate and notwithstanding rule 58(1)(h):
That when the Senate adjourns today it do stand
adjourned until tomorrow, Friday, December 15. 1995, at
ten o'clock in the morning.
The Hon. the Speaker pro tempore: Is leave granted,
honourable senators?

Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Motion agreed to.

TOBACCO PRODUCT RESTRICTIONS BILL
SECOND READING-DEBATE ADJOURNED

Hon. Stanley Haidasz moved the second reading of Bill S-14,
to restrict the manufacture, sale, importation and advertising of
tobacco products.
He said: Honourable senators, I should like to make a few
remarks to explain the highlights of this bill, after which I would
invite honourable senators to participate in the debate or refer the
bill to committee.

Motion agreed to.
[English]

BUSINESS ÔF THE SENATE
ADJOURNMENT

Leave having been given to revert to Government Notices of
Motion:

[ Senaor Sinard 1

Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourable senators, it may be in order for me,
with the agreement of the leadership of the other side, to explain
the plan for the rest of the day.

It is with a great deal of gratification that I accept this
opportunity to make a few remarks on Bill S-14, to restrict the
manufacture, sale, importation and advertising of tobacco
products. In short. this bill is called the Tobacco Product
Restrictions Bill.

December 14, 1995

December 14, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

2537
2537

SENATE DEBATES

As a physician, as a member of the House of Commons and
now as a member of the Senate, I have tried to impress upon
those who will listen that tobacco is a dangerous substance and
that we should do everything we can to control its use by
controlling its manufacture and sale.

the Canadian economy of the use of tobacco is about $20 billion
annually. It is estimated that that figure will rise to $25 billion in
1995. This year, there are 48.000 premature deaths because of its
use, deaths which are completely preventable. Hundreds of
thousands of smokers develop chronic tobacco-related diseases.

Honourable senators, as far as the danger of tobacco is
concerned, its main constituent is nicotine, which is a highly
addictive substance regarded as a narcotic. It is just as addictive
as heroin itself. This alone should move us to consider the
restriction of the manufacture and sale of tobacco.

For these reasons, I appeal to ail honourable senators to
become interested in this problem because it is so damaging to
people as well as to the economy of our country.

Clinicians have identified 26 tobacco-related diseases, 22 of
which occur in adults and four of which occur in children.
Tobacco also contains approximately 4,000 noxious substances
which we call "tars," 50 of which are carcinogenic. In addition,
tobacco, because of nicotine, is extremely addictive.
Tobacco use is a great problem, especially in our young
generation. In spite of all the advertising that the Department of
Health has produced on TV and other media, the use of tobacco
by the young generation is increasing. Unfortunately, it is
increasing greatest among young girls. Statistics have also shown
that in the past few years cancer of the lungs in women who
smoke has now surpassed breast cancer, which is an epidemic in
itself.
Furthermore, in addition to ail these physical damages,
economic health experts have proven to us that the total cost to

I will not detain honourable senators any further. Rather, I urge
honourable senators to participate in the debate of this bill if they
can. If that is not possible, then I ask honourable senators to
study it in committee so that we may bring to the Canadian
people legislation which I believe will greatly reduce the
damages that tobacco products produce.
On motion of Senator Berntson, for Senator Kelly, debate
adjourned.
BUSINESS OF THE SENATE
Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourable senators, as indicated earlier, there is
agreement to stand ail remaining orders.
The Senate adjourned until Friday, December 15, 1995 at
10 a.m.

THE SENATE
Friday, December 15, 1995

ROUTINE PROCEEDINGS

The Senate met at 10:00 a.m., the Speaker in the Chair.
Prayers.

SMALL BUSINESS LOANS ACT

SENATOR'S STATEMENT
INTERNATIONAL TRADE

BILL TO AMEND-REPORT OF COMMITTEE

Hon. John B. Stewart, Acting Chairman of the Standing
Senate Committee on Banking, Trade and Commerce, presented
the following report:
Friday, December 15, 1995

EXPORT STATISTICS

Hon. Jack Austin: Honourable senators, I have some good
news to report on this our last sitting day this year. I should like
to present to honourable senators some trade statistics which
have just been made available.

The Standing Senate Committee on Banking, Trade and
Commerce has the honour to present its

In the first nine months of the year, Canada's merchandise
exports grew by a remarkable 20 per cent, and the trade surplus
by a dramatic 63 per cent compared to the same period last year.
This rapid growth in our exports is diversified. It is primarily
occurring in value-added and major export sectors such as
industrial goods, machinery and equipment. and automotive
products, as well as in more traditional sectors such as forestry
products.

Your Committee, to which was referred the Bill C-99, An
Act to amend the Small Business Loans Act, has, in
obedience to the Order of Reference of Thursday,
December 14, 1995, examined the said Bill and now reports
the same without amendment.

It is also taking place in all major world markets. Our exports
to the United States were up 17 per cent in the first nine months
of 1995 over the same period in 1994; to Latin America,
29 per cent; to Japan, 32 per cent; to the European Union,
42 per cent; to China, 44 per cent; and to all other Asia-Pacific
nations, 47 per cent.
The robust expansion of Canadian exports of goods and
services has greatly increased the share of our national income
derived from trade. As a portion of our GDP, our exports
amounted to 26 per cent in 1992. In 1994, this figure reached
33.2 per cent; and by September, 1995, the annualized rate for
these exports had grown to 36.6 per cent of our GDP.
For individual Canadians, this means exports have become the
most significant factor in the growth of our GDP and one of the
most important contributors to job creation. Indeed, based on
economists' estimates, every $1 billion in exports sustains about
12,000 jobs.

TWENTY-SEVENTH REPORT

Respectfully submitted,
JOHN STEWART
Acting Chairinan
THIRD READING

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, when shall this
bill be read the third time?
Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourable senators, with leave of the Senate
and notwithstanding rule 58(l)(b), I move that the bill be read
the third time now.
The Hon. the Speaker: Is leave granted, honourable senators?
Hon. Donald H. Oliver: Just before you put the motion, Your
Honour, I should like to make a few remarks. I attended the
Banking, Trade and Commerce committee meeting this morning.
This bill received first reading in the House of Commons in
June of 1995, and it came to us at the very last moment.
0 n1ous0

Honourable senators, it is no mistake that the Prime Minister
and the premiers have organized a Team Canada effort to
promote our trade abroad. The Prime Minister, along with most
of the premiers, will visit India, Pakistan, Malaysia, and
Indonesia in January of 1996. That visit will further our trade
effort. These statistics demonstrate that that effort is certainly
worthwhile.

One of the arrangements we thought we had was that the
Standing Senate Committee on Banking, Trade and Commerce
would have an opportunity to review and consider the regulations
pursuant to that bill before they were published in the Canada
Gacette. but when we arrived at the committee meeting this
morning. we had received a letter dated today. December 15,
from the minister. the Honourable John Manley. stating:

December 15, 1995

December 15, 1995

Honourable senators, this is like being jammed. Perhaps a
better way to deal with situations such as this is to have bills of
this nature introduced in the Senate, where we have more time
and more patience to review them, and where we would not be
jammed by not being afforded enough opportunity to consider
important regulations. With respect to this particular bill, the
regulations have more power than the bill itself.
I just wanted to put those remarks on the record, honourable
senators.
Senator Stewart: Honourable senators, I would find it very
difficult not to agree with what Senator Oliver has said. This is
indeed a bill which could have started in the Senate, and been
dealt with thoroughly and expeditiously by this house. It was
introduced in the House of Commons before the House of
Commons took its long summer recess. Now it is sent over to us
before the House of Commons departs for its Christmas break.
A government which was concerned with getting the
legislative business of the country dispatched in an orderly way
would have introduced this bill, and many other bills, in the
Senate. I agree entirely with what Senator Oliver has said with
regard to starting bills such as this in the Senate.
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, do any other
honourable senators wish to speak before we proceed to third
reading?
If not, with leave of the Senate and notwithstanding
rule 58(1)(b), it was moved by the Honourable Senator Graham,
seconded by the Honourable Senator Stewart, that this bill be
read the third time now.

Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Motion agreed to and bill read third time and passed.

2539

SENATE DEBATES

To assist the committee in its consideration of the Bill I
have asked departmental officials to come before you
prepared to consult with the committee on the draft
regulations. This is consistent with my commitment to
provide the committee with the opportunity to be consulted
prior to the Gazetting of the regulations flowing from this
bill.

Is leave granted, honourable senators?

2539

SENATE DEBATES

[Translation]

QUESTION PERIOD
QUEBEC
THE DISTINCT SOCIETY RESOLUTION-COMMENTS BY THE CHAIR
OF THE STANDING COMMITTEE ON CANADIAN HERITAGEGOVERNMENT POSITION

Hon. Marcel Prud'homme: Honourable senators, the House
of Commons and the Senate have passed the resolution on a
distinct society for Quebec. I would like the Leader of the
Government to take note of the following statement. The House
Standing Committee on Canadian Heritage is becoming the
object of increasing controversy. In my opinion, its Chair ought
to take a Canadian history course.
[English]

To put it mildly, I am extremely upset at the views expressed
by the chairman and a couple of members of the majority
concerning their understanding of what Canada is all about, what
culture is all about, and what all the cultural activities taking
place in Quebec are all about.
If we really want to have a harmonious country, we must
understand the nuances and the differences that exist and occur,
especially within different cultures. If we want to have a
successful future in this country, we must have vision. Vision
means being able to predict difficulties ahead of time.
I am particularly concerned about the way in which some
members of that committee interpret their mandate - and I am
not talking about the new member, Mr. Peric, who seems to
understand what Canada is all about, more than do the others,
although he has just been nominated to be on that committee; and
Mr. Serré. They are two Liberais who understand that, even if at
times we do not like what the National Film Board may produce,
or what the CBC is putting on the air, if we are to know each
other, first we must know who we are.
We may disagree with the National Film Board. but I think
they are doing a good job, as is the CBC French broadcasting
division. They are there to show Canada as it is today.
Before we adjourn for the Christmas break, may I ask the
minister to again draw to the attention of her caucus, and to the
attention of that committee in particular, the sensitive nature of
the mandate of that committee, and the fact that members of that
committee should at least know what is happening? The
chairman was interviewed by someone at La Presse. He
admitted, after prompting, that he had never seen a Quebec film,
nor had he ever heard a Quebec song. He never saw, he never
heard and he never read.

1 arn very sceptical as to what they will accomplish at the end
of their work in that committee. 1 arn upset today, to put it mildly.
1 arn following the work of that committee. Too many
inflammatory statements are being nmade. They are only helping
the Bloc Québécois in their efforts to show that Ottawa does flot
understand anything.
1 arn putting this forward in the forni of a comment, and also in
the forni of a question. WiII the Leader of the Governrnent in the
Senate kindly draw to the attention of her colleagues that some of
us - and I sec sorne people on both sides nodding, which rneans
that other senators are following the activities of that comrnittee
-are extremely concerned about the behaviour of the majority
of the members of that committee?
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators, 1 will certainly take the comments ot
Senator Prud'homme to, the chairman of the cornmittee and to the
minister involved.

When will the governrnent respond to the report on aboriginal
veterans passcd unanimously hy the Senate?
Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators. 1 too arn disappointed on Senator
Andreychuk's behaif. I will detinitely pursue this matter. 1 cannot
give her a date with regard to the latter part of her question. but 1
will actively pursue that, too. This is flot a satisfactory way of
progressing on this issue.
[Translation]
ROYAL ASSENT
NOTICE

The Hon. the Speaker informed the Senate that the following
communication had been received:
RIDEAU HALL

[Translation]
Hon. Pierre Claude Nolin: Honourable senators, since our
deliberations verge on the confidential, 1 would like to follow up
on the question asked by Senator Prud'homme. Every time the
Chair of the Heritage Committee demonstrates a flagrant Iack of
knowledge about Quebec, he provides Mrs. Tremblay of the Bloc
Québécois with ammunition. His comments get on the 6 p.m. and
il p.rn. news broadcasts. and they hit the front pages of the
newspapers in Quebec the next rnorning. Perhaps this gentleman
does not read the newspaper. does not listen to the Quebec news
in French, but we federalists in Quebec end up having to defend
people like him. 1 must admit that 1 have no great respect for the
gentleman. Will you be passing this confidential comment on to
the minister responsible?

December 15, 1995
Sir,
1 have the honour to inforni you that The Honourable
John Charles Major. Puisne Judge of the Supreme Court of
Canada. in his capacity as Deputy Governor General. will
proceed to the Senate Chamber today. the I 5th day of
December 1995, at 12:00 p.rn.. for the purpose of giving
Royal Assent to certain bills.
Yours sincerely,
Judith A. LaRocque
Seci-etarv to the Goi'ernor General

[English]
Senator Fairbairn: Honourable senators, I do not believe that
the statements made in this house are as confidential as the
honourable senator thinks, but 1 will certainly send the full
exchange in our Senate Hansard to the chairman. and also to the
minister.

The Honourable
The Speaker of the Senate
Ottawa

ORDERS 0F THE DAY

ABORIGINAL PEOPLES
SCHOI ARSHIP FOR ABORICIlNAL VETERANS-REOUEST FOR
RESPONSE TO REPORT 0F STANDING SENATE COMMITTEE

CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENIS BILL
SECOND READING-DEBATE CONTINUED

Hon. A. Raynell Andreychuk: Honourable senators, I was
pleased to read in the newspaper that a scholarship is being set up
for aboriginal veterans, as our Senate committee had
recommended. However, 1 was somewhat disappointed that the
information came to me. as chair of that committee, through the
media and flot through a Senate information system. Neither did
it corne to me frorn the govemment. To this date, there has been
no response to the Senate report.
While I think the scholarship was a firsi good move. there
were many other recommendations that. in my opinion, are valid.
and ofv\alue particularlv at this lime to aboriginal peoples and to
\'Cterans.
[ Scnatoi- Prutd'h ome 1

On the Order:
Resuming the debate on the motion of the Honourable
Senator Fairbairn. P.C.. seconded by the Honourable Senator
Graham, for the second reading of Bill C-I 110. an act
respecting constitutional amendments.
Hon. Pierre Claude Nolin: Honourable senators. several
points have already been raised by my colleagues. I woLuld now
like to (lraw the attention of the Senate to some of' thie
circumnstanccs al-oLInd the rather hasty consideration ot this hilI iii
the flouse oi Counions.

December 15, 1995

December 15, 1995

SENATE DEBATES
SENATE DEBATES

For instance, the Saskatchewan Minister of Intergovemmental
Affairs mentioned in a letter - unfortunately I was not able to
obtain a copy, since the clerk of the committee in the other place
was not willing to send me a copy -that he did not receive
notice of this bill in time to prepare a well-considered
presentation. Consequently, he was unable to appear before the
committee.
I think it is important to refer this bill to a committee of the
Senate and give representatives of the various provinces who
have shown an interest an opportunity to be heard. First of all, I
think it is essential, when one is about to amend the procedure
for adopting constitutional amendments, at least to hear what the
representatives of the provinces have to say.
Second, I would like to draw the attention of this House to the
wording of Bill C- 110, comparing it with what the federalist
forces proposed to Quebecers before the referendum. The No
side's manifest said that the government of Quebec should have
full autonomy in the areas under its jurisdiction and that there
should be no change in the relationship between the Govemment
of Quebec and the Government of Canada without the
participation and agreement of Quebec. That is the kind of
federalism Quebec federalists believe in. When I read the
wording of Bill C- 110, I have the impression the govemment is
delivering a lot more than the customer ordered. So much more
that it has managed to upset an attempt to improve the cordial
relations that should exist between the federal government and
the provinces. Several authors and experts on Canadian
constitutional relations maintain that constitutional discussions in
Canada are practically meaningless because of this insistence on
talking about texts. Perhaps we should change our attitudes
instead of fighting about every comma and semi-colon and terms
we have trouble defining.
It would be appropriate for the Parliament of Canada, through
the good offices of the Senate, to initiate a dialogue with the
Canadian provinces and aboriginal peoples. The latter rushed to
prepare a presentation which they gave before the committee of
the House of Commons. They admitted they did not have enough
time to prepare their brief. An Inuit group even submitted an
amendment. They tried. They admitted they did not have enough
time to be able to explain their position. It is our duty to give
these people a chance to appear before a committee of the Senate
and give them enough time to prepare their presentation.
This question is central to Canadian constitutional
amendments. We would be making a serious mistake if we
rushed to adopt this very important bill before we adjoum for the
holidays without first hearing from representatives of the
provincial governments, aboriginal peoples or from any other
group or individual who would like to offer us their comments.
[English]

Hon. Noël A. Kinsella: Honourable senators, as I began my
study of Bill C- 110, a number of preliminary questions presented

themselves. The first focuses on what impact this legislation
would have on the exercise of the federal veto as this relates to
the responsibility of Parliament to take constitutional and unity
decisions in the pan-Canadian interest, or in the national interest.
In other words, is there a difference between the common good
of Canada as a whole and the sum total of ten provincial or five
regional interests? It seems to me that there may well be a radical
difference between what constitutes the pan-Canadian interest
and what constitutes the sum total of interest of all the
constituent parts.
That begs the question: Can the national public interest of a
country be different from the bona fide public interest of some
parts of a country? Will the proposal contained in this bill
interfere with the responsibility of Parliament to identify,
articulate and act in the public interest of the nation as a
composite whole? Is there something qualitatively unique about
our national or pan-Canadian interest? Does the model for the
exercise of Parliamentary responsibility which underlies
Bill C-110 enhance or inhibit the desire of so many of us to see
Canada grow and develop, as all modern societies must? Are
there other examples of federal states wherein this kind of a
limitation is placed on the federal, the national or the central
government? Have the drafters of this bill conducted
comparative studies in this regard?
Another area of reflection arose from my initial study of
examples which may already be in place. For example, does the
Diefenbaker 1960 Canadian Bill of Rights serve as an example of
how Parliament agrees statutorily to limit its legislative
authority? In other words, is that not an example whereby,
through statute, Parliament says it will not exercise its supremacy
in certain areas, those areas being defined by the Canadian Bill
of Rights? Thus, Parliament has limited itself in that regard.
Perhaps that is an example for the model that we have in
Bill C-110.
Alternatively, does the example that I raise around the 1960
Bill of Rights pose more questions as to the issues of
justiciability? As we know, should Parliament enact a piece of
legislation, or undertake an initiative that would run counter to its
own statutory provision, that is, the Bill of Rights, then the courts
could adjudicate. What is the adjudication mechanism or the
model of judiciability that would flow from Bill C- 110?
Further, honourable senators, I have a question as to the
supremacy of legislation. Will the limitation imposed on
Parliament by Bill C-110 have supremacy over other statutes or
other powers of Parliament? As I first read it, there is nothing in
the bill that indicates the status of the bill in terms of its
supremacy over other measures. The constitutionality of the
provision in Bill C-110 has been alluded to by others. Those
types of questions must also be resolved.

Clearly, honourable senators, the government has heard the
message that it must lead in the area of national unity. and I
salute the government for having heard that message. I also
salute the govemment and the Prime Minister for having made
an effort to begin to take action. However, when one leads. one
must know where and how one will get to the destination. In
other words. a plan or vision is necessary.

that is what the Constitution Act, 1982, which was passed by
another Liberal govemment. says they must do. For some reason.
though, this Liberal government will not do it. Instead, they force
this high-profile, empty legislation through the House of
Commons, brazenly hoping that the people of Canada will think
they look good. Simply trying to look good is not enough, and
the people of Canada know that.

My final point relates to the provision in the bill found in
clause 1(1) which speaks to the consent of the provinces, the
regions, being sought. There is no indication in the bill as to how
that consent would be determined.

[Translation]

A number of questions present themselves as a result of my
reading of the bill which makes it difficult to simply focus on the
principle of a bill such as this. If the principle is that the
government is attempting to identify a manner in which it can
begin to address, in 1996 terms, the problems of national unity,
then we can all easily agree with such a laudable principle.
However, in regard to whether this particular model and,
therefore, the principle of this bill is appropriate and whether it
meets the objective of facilitating national unity, the jury seems
to be very much out.
Honourable senators, we will serve the country well by
examining the bill in a serious and studious manner and by
hearing from the provinces, which have the right to be heard by
the Senate when a measure affecting their interest is before
Parliament. Obviously, we will want to extend the opportunity to
the provinces, as we must pursuant to our rules, to voice their
reaction and to offer their guidance.
As I reflected with colleagues the other day, it seemed to me
that the juncture at which the country finds itself these days is
one where the old language has failed us. We now need to
identify new grammar to express national unity.
It is to be hoped that, as the committee examines this bill and
attempts to deal with some of the questions which I have raised
on this first round of analysis, we will be able to make a healthy
contribution to an objective which I think we al] share.
[Translation]
Hon. Jean-Maurice Simard: Honourable senators, in my
capacity as Progressive Conservative senator for the people of
New Brunswick and, more specifically, the francophones of New
Brunswick, I rise to speak on Bill C-I10. This bill concerns
Canada's unity. I must say I was surprised to sec the government
introducing the measures included in this bill. We can find no
fault with the general objectives of the bill. Like many
Canadians, I cannot imagine Canada without Quebec. We want
Quebec to be part of Canada.
[English]
On the other hand, we also know that what the Chrétien
govemment is really doing is nothing more than an exercise in
public relations. They are terrified of talking to their partners in
Confederation about what they could really do to stop Quebec
from leaving Canada. However. that is what they must do. and

[ Senator Kinsella 1

9(1040)
In fact, Canadians know that, in the weeks and months
preceding the referendum in October, the government was
bragging about there being no problem and claiming to be
looking after job creation. This government's job creation record
leaves something to be desired.
This government has donc nothing. It was much more
concerned with its image and shining it up. We have heard the
Prime Minister and some of his ministers say often enough that
there was no problem. We could see they were more concerned
with keeping their popularity for a period of time. This is
primarily the cause of the serious situation in which we find
ourselves today.
As a francophone from New Brunswick, I am naturally
concerned about the fate awaiting Canada's francophones and
New Brunswick's Acadians, should Quebec separate.
In the meantime, the government gives us this bill, which
some describe as meaningless. I am tempted to agree. To date,
the bill has caused a lot of anxiety. If it were passed in its present
form, without consultation, it could take the country to the brink.
As a New Brunswick francophone, and speaking for
Canadians there of all cultures, I am proud to belong to the only
officially bilingual province in Canada. This status has been
enshrined in the Constitution since 1982.
[English]
Not only are we proud of New Brunswickers, but we are proud
of Quebec. That is why, in 1987, the Conservative govemments
of Canada and New Brunswick were prominent in trying to
ensure that the Meech Lake Accord, which recognized Quebec's
distinctiveness, got approval by the govemments of the day, so
that it could be entrenched in the Constitution. It was a tragedy
for Canada when it was rejected. However, we must not stop
trying, as has the Chrétien government, evidently. Canada is far
too important to all of us.
I will now turn to the proposed amending formula which is
contained in this empty Liberal bill. This version of what is
called generally by many "the Victoria formula" is not a bad
thing for New Brunswick. In fact, it was supported by the
Government of New Brunswick when it was first proposed in
1971, and then later in the constitutional negotiations which led
to the 1982 amendments. It gives the provinces in the Atlantic
area more say on new amendments than does the current
formula.

December 15, 1995

December 15, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

2543
2543

SENATE DEBATES

That it also gives a veto to Quebec and Ontario, and now to
British Columbia, by recognizing them as regions and not simply
provinces is not a matter of unequalness but of common sense.
New Brunswick's participation in Canada's constitutional
development is surely better served when it is one of two in a
region which can stop a constitutional change than simply one of
seven in the vast national population. Therefore, as with the
Quebec distinctiveness part of this public relations manoeuvre of
the Chrétien government, I support the amending provision in
theory.
[Translation]

Honourable senators, I have the feeling that those talking this
way, like myself, would like things to be done right, would like a
study done and consultation on this bill. If this bill was not
urgent for two years, I have a hard time understanding why the
government is insisting that it be passed in such haste, in less
than a week.
[English]

Indeed, some of us may have had reservations about the
provisions of the 1982 constitutional amendments. The fact is,
though, they are the law, and they are the only way we can find
our way out of this quandary in which we find ourselves. The
Senate can help in finding the way, honourable senators. It can
do things which the Chrétien govemment evidently is afraid to
do. We can hear from Canada's premiers and from other
Canadians who better recognize the urgency of this matter than
does the Chrétien government.
The problem with this bill is, as I have indicated, not what it
purports to do, but its impotence.
[Translation]

This bill is definitely not enough. The people of Quebec and
New Brunswick, and even those of Canada as a whole, know that
it is not enough.

Hon. Senators: Agreed.
On motion of Senator Graham, debate adjourned to later this
day.
PRIVATE BILL
EVANGELICAL MISSIONARY CHURCH (CANADA WEST DISTRICT)
BILL-MESSAGE FROM COMMONS

The Hon. the Speaker informed the Senate that a message
had been received from the House of Commons returning
Bill S-12, to amalgamate the Alberta corporation known as the
Missionary Church with the Canada corporation known as the
Evangelical Missionary Church, Canada West District, and
acquainting the Senate that they had passed the bill without
amendment.
NATIONAL DEFENCE
SPECIAL COMMISSION ON RESTRUCTURING OF THE RESERVESREPORT OF SOCIAL AFFAIRS, SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
COMMITTEE ADOPTED

The Senate proceeded to consideration of the thirteenth report
of the Standing Senate Committee on Social Affairs, Science and
Technology (study - Report on the Restructuring of the
Reserves), tabled in the Senate on December 14, 1995.
Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government), for Senator Bonnell, moved the adoption of the
report.
Motion agreed to and report adopted.
INTERNAL ECONOMY, BUDGETS AND
ADMINISTRATION
FORTIETH REPORT OF COMMITTEE ADOPTED

[English]

Surely we can expect more from a prime minister who is
evidently one of the most popular in recent Canadian history, and
who commands a healthy majority in the House of Commons.
However, given the unfortunate fact that we cannot expect
anything except platitudes from this government, surely the
people of Canada are expecting something from the Senate. 1, for
one, do. Let us get on with it.
a

(1050)

Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourable senators, I ask for leave to adjourn
this particular item until later this day.
The Hon. the Speaker: Is leave granted, honourable senators?

The Senate proceeded to consideration of the fortieth report of
the Standing Committee on Internal Economy, Budgets and
Administration (supplementary budget - National Finance
Committee), presented in the Senate on December 14, 1995.
Hon. Colin Kenny moved the adoption of the report.
Motion agreed to and report adopted.
FORTY-FIRST REPORT ADOPTED

The Senate proceeded to consideration of the forty-first report
of the Standing Committee on Internal Economy, Budgets and
Administration (supplementary budget - Energy, the
Environment and Natural Resources Committee), presented in
the Senate on December 14, 1995.

Hon. Colin Kenny moved the adoption of the report.
Motion agreed to and report adopted.
FORTY-SECOND REPORT ADOPTED

The Senate proceeded to consideration of the forty-second
Report of the Standing Committee on Internai Economy, Budgets
and Administration (Budget -Code of Condiicî Cnmmittee).
presented in the Senate on December 14, 1995.

Hon. Colin Kenny moved the adoption of the report.
Motion agreed to and report adopted.

ONTARIO COURT GENERAL DIVISION
MOTION TO STRIKE SPECIAL COMMIYUEE TO EXAMINE AND
REPORT UPON THE CONDUCT AND BEHAVIOUR 0F CERTAIN
OFFICERS AND JUSTICES-DEBATE CONTINUED

On the Urder:
Resuming the debate on the motion of Senator Cools.
seconded by the Honourable Senator Carstairs:
That a Special Committee of the Senate be constituted te,
examine and report upon the conduct and behaviour of
certain justices and barristers of the Ontario Court of Justice
(General Division), raised by the Honourable Senator Cools
in ber speeches on Parliamentary Privilege in the Senate in
terms of:
(i) failing to take judicial notice. of the L aw. of
Parliamentary Privilege. the Constitution of Canada. and
the laws of Canada pertaining to the Senate;
(ii) failing to uphold and enforce the said laws. and the
immunities and privileges of the Senate,
(iii) interfering witb and trustrating the enjoyment and
exercise of the said Iaws, immunities, and privileges;
(iv) inducing failure to observe and comply witb the said
Iaws, immunities, and privileges;
(y) impeaching proceedings in Parliament;

(vi) threatening sanctions on the vindication of the said
laws, immunities, and privileges;
(vii) their conduct and bebaviour generally relating to,
the Law of Parliamentary Privilege, the Constitution of

Canada. the independence of the judiciary. constitutional
comity, the dignity of the Senate, and the due
administration of justice;
That the Committee be further empowered to consider
and report upon related matters which may concern the
privileges of the Senate,
That the committee have power to send for persons.
papers and records, to examine witnesses, to report from
time to time and to print such papers and evidence from day
to day as may bc ordered by the committee;
That the committee be composed of seven members, four
of whom shall constitute a quorum; and
That the Committee of Selection be instructed to, decide
and report upon the membership of the Special
Committee.-(HotioirableSenator Cools)

Hon. Anne C. Cools: Honourable senators, 1 risc to complete
my remarks regarding this motion for a special committee. 1 shall
continue from where 1 left off on November 1, 1995.
Mr. Justice Matlow exceeded his jurisdiction by failing to take
judicial notice of, and failing 10 uphold Parliament's privileges as
commanded by the Constitution Act, 1867, and the Parliament of
Canada Act, sections 4 and 5. He arbitrarily waived the
procedural miles of the Courts of Justice Act and also Judge Lee
Ferrier's court order to, support his own position. He abandoned
the common law principle of economy in the exercise of power
and breached the convention of judicial independence in tbis
injudicious assumption of power. In this. a political act, he
politicized the bench and compromised both judicial and
parliamentary sovereignty. He acted without impartiality. He
declined to discemn truth and countenanced faisehood and perjury
by admitting two sworn and perjurious affidavits in evidence that
day, despite another judge's order forbidding their admission. He
granted these affidavits judicial protection by attaching Her
Majesty's judicial privilege to them.
Honourable senators, 1 accuse Anne MoIIoy, the author and
commissioner of these false affidavits. of further breaches of
parliamentary privilege. She cast retiections upon the Senate,
claiming that the weIl-respected Mr. Justice Lissaman had lied to,
ber, saying that he had bad a telephone conversation with this
senator, wherein I had attempted to influence bim. She later
admitted her falsehood, claiming uncertainty that Mr. Justice
Lissaman had said that he actually spoke to me. She
compromised Judge Lee Ferrier, using bis court order to compel
this senator's attendance as a witness at a Cros s-examinati on
during yet another Senate sitting. Finally, she and the deponent olf
the affidavits, Rhoda Lipton, later admitted that the affidavits
were false and were intended to mislead justice.

December 15, 1995

December 15, 1995

SENATE DEBATES

SENATE DEBATES

Honourable senators, when I insisted that barristers not serve
legal process in the Senate, Ms Molloy -

a barrister -

wrote

that my position was "unreasonable and obstructive" and
threatened:
"...Uniess... you are agreeing to this form of service, ... will
I
be seeking an order...
She did. She sought and obtained a court order. Justice Matlow
ordered service of legal process in the precincts of the Senate.
She used first embarrassment then legal process and court orders
to threaten and intimidate this senator, her strongest tool being
the threat of criminal contempt of court. She was unscrupulous.
Honourable senators, Her Majesty's court, its processes, its
judges and its officers were deployed to obstruct and interfere
with the performance and the exercise of the functions and duties
of a senator, thus the Senate.
Honourable senators, Mr. Justice Matlow committed a
contempt of Parliament in his order of June 14, 1994, when he
wrote in his own hand:
The plaintiff.. .as a litigant, ...is entitled to no special
treatment ....Counsel should endeavour, so far as possible,
not to schedule matters that would interfere with the
plaintiff's parliamentary duties, if some dispute arises, the
further direction of the court can be sought.
By hearing motions requiring this senator's personal
attendance on a Senate sitting day at Osgood Hall, Toronto, on
Tuesday, June 14, 1994, he impeached proceedings in
Parliament. He unilaterally cancelled a mutually agreed upon day
of Monday, June 13, 1994, a non-Senate sitting day, and
unilaterally ordered a new date of Tuesday, June 14, 1994, a
Senate sitting day. That morning, the honourable judge
repeatedly and brutishly refused to acknowledge a document on
parliamentary privilege prepared by the Senate's Assistant Law
Clerk, Mr. Mark Audcent. He refused to allow me to address the
Court on parliamentary privilege. Justice Matlow employed his
judicial station to intimidate this senator. This senator resisted his
provocation. She avoided his unappealable summary and
punitive powers of contempt of court.
Moreover, at the commencement of three further proceedings
instituted by the opposing barristers for Mr. Justice Matlow's
adjudication on parliamentary privilege, the honourable judge
again refused to adjourn and again ruled to proceed. In his
judgment, delivered at 2:00 p.m., the very hour the Senate was
sitting that day, he ruled against parliamentary privilege and
awarded excessive costs against this senator, compensating them
for their time spent on privilege. These proceedings, instituted
without proper notice and service upon me, manifested again
Mr. Justice Matlow's support of these barristers' questionable
actions.
Honourable senators, the Senate's resolution of June 9, 1994,
to sit on Tuesday, June 14, 1994, was an order carrying the full
force of Her Majesty's command. That order is the law. All must

2545
2545

heed. On this, Sir Erskine May, in his treatise The Law,
Privileges, Proceedingsand Usage of Parliainent,states:

Every question, when agreed to, assumes the form either of
an order or of a resolution of the House....By its orders the
House directs its committees, its members, its officers, the
order of its own proceedings and the acts of all persons
whom they concern;...
No court may amend, alter or deviate from an order of the
Senate.
On limits, even judicial limits to the powers, privileges and
immunities of Parliament granted by section 18 of the
Constitution Act, 1867, the Right Honourable Bora Laskin,
former Chief Justice of Canada, said:
There is no limit anywhere in law, either in Canada or the
United Kingdom....
Any judicial action to disobey or countenance disobedience of
the Senate order of June 9, 1994, is not a limit in law;
consequently, it is a transgression of the law. Mr. Justice Matlow
and barristers Anne Molloy, Bruce Drake, Eva Frank, and Robin
Basu breached the unwaivable immunities and privileges of the
Senate and offered indignity and offence to the Senate.
I shall repeat my accusations: There was repeated and
persistent disobedience to the laws of the Senate. There was
refusal to serve legal process at the senator's residence, as
required by law, and insistence on service within the precincts of
Parliament. There was repeated and persistent compulsion of a
senator's attendance in court on Senate sitting days. There was
use of judicial censure to exert pressure on this senator regarding
the exercise of her parliamentary privileges. Further, the
honourable judge and these barristers deliberately brought eight
proceedings on a Senate sitting day. Of these eight, three were
instituted for the questioning, adjudication, and defeating of
parliamentary privilege in the courts, which three succeeded. The
honourable judge and the barristers impeached parliamentary
proceedings in the courts. The honourable judge and the
barristers breached the unwaivable immunities and privileges of
the Senate, and offered indignity and offence to the Senate, and
to the courts.
O(1100)

Thus I ask honourable senators to constitute a special
committee to examine this matter. The committee would
examine the circumstances, but, primarily, the committee could
re-establish the primacy of parliamentarian allegiance to
parliamentary business and the upholding of the law of
parliamentary privilege.
I ask honourable senators to consider my remarks today in
conjunction with all my other speeches on this subject-matter in
this chamber over the past year.
On motion of Senator Watt. debate adjourned.

BUSINESS 0F THE SENATE
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourabie senators, that concludes
the order paper, except for the motion by Honourable Senator
Graham that Bill C-l11 be dealt with iater this day. What is your
pieasure, Honourable Senator Graham?
Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Covernment): Honourable senators, we are not prepared to
proceed at the presenit time, but there has been a discussion with
the leadership opposite and, in view of the fact that we have
Royal Assent at 12:00 noon, we shahl proceed with this item
at 11:45 a.m.

The Hon. the Speaker: Is it agreed, honourable senator, that
we will proceed with this item at 11:45 a.m.?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
The Hon. the Speaker: On that basis, I leave the chair until
11:45 a.m.
The Senate adjourned during pleasure.
O

1140)

The sitting of the Senate was resumed.

BUSINESS 0F THE SENATE
Hon. B. Alasdair Graham: Honourable senators, I want to
thank you ahl for your patience.
With respect to our tùrther deliberations on Bill C- i110, certain
agreements have been reached by the leadership on both sides.
Those arrangements and agreements wiil be put forth
immediately. They are being printed and translated so that we
have themn in both official ianguages, and they wihl be avaiable
immediately foiiowing Royal Assent. Consequentiy, I suggest
that we adjoumn during pheasure at this time.

CHRISTMAS GREETINGS
Hon. Noël A. Kinsella: Honourabie senators, if we are
moving on this, perhaps 1 might take this opportunity to extend to
our staff, the Pages, and other officers of this chamber, as welh as
to colleagues opposite, our best wishes for the season.

appreciate what they do for us and what a pleasure it is to work
with them.
We do flot express our gratitude very often over the year. We
are so preoccupied by some problem, which, as it turns out the
next morning, was unimportant, that we walk by the Pages
without even noticing them. 1 arn sure that they understand and
that they know. We are taking this opportunity today to tell themn
again that they are appreciated. And we wish ail] of you a happy
New Year.

Hon. Marcel Prud'homme: 1 consuited my caucus, which
has seiected me to speak on its behaif and to associate myseif
with the weli-chosen words spoken by the government whip and
the opposition whip.
1 wish also that this time off wili be a time to think things over,
and that we will corne back in top formi to launch into a major
moment in the liite of our country by iooking for solutions
together. Perhaps the solution could corne from the Senate. I
firmily helieve it couid.
[English]
I hope that the Leader of the Government and others will
refleet, during the Christmas season and in the New Year, on the
role that independent senators should play here. 1 think I can say
that we are extremeiy eager to participate more and more in the
affairs of the Senate.

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, the Senate will
now adjourn during pleasure to await the arrivai of' the
Honourable the Deputy of His Excellency the Govemnor General.
The Senate adjoumned during picasure.
[Translation]

ROYAL ASSENT
The Honourable John Charles Major, Puisne Judge ot the
Supreme Court of Canada, in his capacity as Deputy Governor
General, having corne and being seated at the foot of the Throne.
and the House of Commons having been summoned, and being
corne wîth their Speaker, the Honourable the Deputy Governor
General was pleased to give the Royal Assent to the following
bis:

Canada is a great multicuiturai country. Obviously, by
definition. it is also a muiti-faith society. Various faiths across
Canada have in common at this time of the year the season of
peace and goodwill. In that spirit, on behaif of my colleagues on
this side of the chamber. I extend to ail, but in a very special and
warm way to our friends on that side of the chamber, every best
wish for the season and ail] prosperity in 1996.

An Act amend the Corrections and Conditionai Release
Act, the Criminal Code, the Criminal Records Act, the
Prisons and Reformatories Act and the Transfer of
Offenders Act (Bill C-45, Chapter 42, 1995)

ITranslation]

An Act respecting
Chapter44, 1995)

Hon. Jacques Hébert: H-onourable senators. 1 wouid flot
lorgi\e mnyseif if I did not repeat in the other ofticial ianguage
the \varmn and vers niee things rny honourable colicague opposite
Just said and telIl ouIr stafft. and t he Pages, ho\v nitc h we

An Act respecting the establishmnent of the British
Columnbia Treaty Commission (Bill C-1i07. Cliapter 45,
1995)

An Act to amend the Auditor General Act (Bill C-83,
Chapter 43, 1995)
employment

equity

(Bill

C-64,

December 15, 1995

DEBATES
December15,
1995SENATE

An Act to amend the Excise Tax Act and the Income Tax
Act (Bill C- 103, Chapter46, 1995)
An Act to amend the National Housing Act (Bill C-108,
Chaprer 47, 1995)

An Act to amend the Small Business Loans Act (Bill
C-99, Chapter48, 1995)
An Act to amalgamnate the Alberta corporation known as
the Missionary Church with the Canada corporation known
as the Evangelical Missionary Church, Canada West District
(Bill S-12)
The Honourable Gilbert Parent, Speaker of the House of
Commons, then addressed the Honourable the Deputy Govemor
General as follows:
May it please Your Honour:
The Commons of Canada have voted certain supplies
required to enable the Government to defray the expenses of
the public service.
In the namne of the Commons, 1 present to Your Honour
the following bill:
An Act for granting to Her Majesty certain sums of
money for the public service of Canada for the financial
year ending March 31, 1996 (Bill C-I 116, Chapter 49, 1995)
To which bill I humbly request Your Honour's assent.
The House of Commons withdrew.
The Honourable the Deputy Governor General was pleased to
retire.
[English]
* 1210)

The sitting of the Senate was resumed.
CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENTS
MOTION TO ESTABLISH SPECIAL SENATE COMMITTEE
ON BILL C-I 10 ADOPTED

Leave having been given to revert to Government Notices of
Motion:
Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourable senators, as I indicated earlier, there
has been discussion on both sides and, accordingly, with leave of
the Senate and notwithstanding rule 57(l)(d), 1 move:
That a special committee of the Senate be appointed to
consider. after second reading, the Bill C- 110. An Act
respecting constitutional amendments; and

24
2547

That the following senators be appointed to serve on the
Special Committee: namely, the Honourable Senators
Andreychuk, Beaudoin, Carney, Carstairs, De Bané,
Kinsella, Lewis, Gauthier Marchand, Meighen, Murray and
Rivest, and that three members constitute a quorum; and
That the committee have power to send for persons,
papers and records, to examine witnesses, and to print such
papers and evidence from day to day as may be ordered by
the committee, and
That the committee have the power to sit during
adjoumrments of the Senate; and
That the committee have power to retain the services of
professional, clerical, stenographic and such other staff as
deemed advisable hy the committee; and
That the committee present its final report to, the Senate
no later than 9 a.m. February 1, 1996, and
That no later than 5:30 p.m. on Friday, February 2, 1996,
any proceedings before the Senate shall be interrupted and
ail questions necessary to dispose of ail remaining stages of
the said Bill shall be put forthwith without further debate or
amendment, and that any votes on any of those questions
not be further deferred.
The Hon. the Speaker: Is leave granted, honourable senators?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
The Hon. the Speaker: Is it your pleasure, honourable
senators, to adopt the motion?
[Translation]

Hon. Marcel Prud'homme: Honourable senators,
aile 51(1 )(d) of the Rules of the Senate stipulates that two days'
notice must be given for any motion for the appointment of a
special committee. Obviously, a single senator could probably
unduly prolong the debate. I will not do so. Some honourable
senators may recail that we came back in JuIy because too little
time had been spent on consultation. Every senator counts; 1
cannot repeat that too often.
[En glish]

Once more, a group of extremely knowledgeable senators has
been appointed. Once more, it has been done without even
consulting others who may have something to offer.
In the early 1970s, 1 had the honour to travel to every province
and territory of Canada on a special committee under your
chairmanship, Your Honour. You know the role that some of us
played at that time in calming Canadians who were ready to
jump on the table. As a matter ot tact, some did that very thing in
Hull. Some rejected us. With calm. patience and a focus on
historical perspective. we succeeded in producing a remarkable
report the reading of which 1 recommend to honourable senators.
That report was. of'course. rejected out of hand. like ail the other
reports.

There are solutions to rnany of' the problerns of today in that
report under His Honour's signature as joint chairman of that
special cornmittee of the House of Commons and the Senate.

certain pieces of legislation passed before the long-rurnoured
prorogation becomes a fact. It is becoming more and more
obvious that that is indeed a likelihood.

Some of our Pages told me that they were impressed by my
speech yesterday on sorne of the historical background of
Canada. As 1 said. sorne others of us have sornething to offer. For
how long will we retain this clubby atmosphere? Is that what we
want for the future of the Senate? 1 arn not bragging: 1 arn saying
that 1 have a lot to offer and that constantly excluding
independent senators will one day create big problems.

Out of an abundance of' caution. however, I wish to make it
clear that it is rny understanding that if it is the governrnent's
intention to prorogue on or about February 5. the govemnment
will not bring any more contentious legislation before this
chamber with the expectation that it will be dealt with prior to
prorogation.

1 arn known for my extraordinary charrn. pleasant character
and patience. but one day 1 wilI get up and say. "I arn sorry. but
you wiIl have to corne back next week.- I read sornething about
the possibility of that scenario before 1 came in this rnorning. If it
is your wish that 1 replace Senator Frith. who used to know how
to use the rule book very welI. I will. However. I did not corne to
the Senate to count points.
1 regret this situation. This will be very important work. 1 wilI
not go on vacation. I wili attend this cornrittee, as a
non-rnerber. to demonstrate rny extrerne interest. However, it is
not the sarne when you are not a member.
Your Honour is the ultirnate protector of senators. When
sorneone has something to offer. that person should at least be
advised of what is planned. 1 learned of this deal only moments
ago. 1 respect Senator Graham. He is a long-time friend. As a
matter of tact, 1 supported him when he ran l'or president of the
Liberal Party, the same timne when Senator Davey wanted to run.
I have to lighten the (one of my rernarks. because I arn
becoming too passionate.
1 think 1 have made my point. I understand the rules and 1
understand that there must be a balance between the two sides.
However. people must use their heads. I spoke to Senator Pittield
and Senator Lawson about this matter. It is conceivable that, in
the future, sorne of you may decide to sit as independents. We
often hear rurnours. It is comfortable in this corner.
1 shahl not make honourable senators corne back next week.
although 1 cou Id.

Hon. Eric Arthur Berntson (Deputy Leader of the
Opposition): Honourable senators. it is truc that over the last
several days there has been discussion with regard to how we
should proceed with Bill C-1 10. This motion is the result of that
discussion.
The return of the Senate on the Thursday before the House of
Commons returns frorn ils Christmas recess will not be
welcomed by ail senators as it goes against the usual customn of
resuming our sittings one week following the House of
Commons. We have agreed to this in recognition of the
government's unstated but more and more obvious desire te, have

1 Sellat i Piid, hoin uIl 1

Hon. Willie Adams: Honourable senators, Bill C-110 will
affect aIl Canadians. Is it the intention that this committee will
travel. or will it hold its hearings here in Ottawa?
Senator Graham: Honourable senators. 1 take Senator
Adamns' point seriously. However, I must say that how the
comrnittee disposes of the business before it is up to the
comrnittee members themselves.
The Hon. the Speaker: Is it your pleasure. honourable
senators. to adopt the motion'?
Motion agreed to.

CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENTS BILL
SECOND READING

On the Order:
Resuming the debate on the motion of' the Honourable
Senator Fairbairu. PC.. seconded by the Honourable Senator
Graham, for the second reading of Bill C- 110, An Act
respecting constitutional amendments.-(Senator Graham)j.

Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourable senators, unless any other senator
wishes to speak on this motion, I suggest the question be put.

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators. il is moved by
the Honourable Senator Fairbairn, seconded by the Honourable
Senator Graham, that this bill be read the second lime.
Is it your pleasure. honourable senators. to adopt the motion?

Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Motion agreed to and bill read second tirne.
REFERRED TO COMMITTEE

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators. when shail this
bill be read the third time?
On motion of Senator Graham. bill referred to the Special
Senate Comrnittee on Bill C-1 10.

2549

SENATE DEBATES

December 15, 1995

ADJOURNMENT
Hon. B. Alasdair Graham, Deputy Leader of the
Government: Honourable senators, with leave of the Senate and
notwithstanding ruie 58(l)(h), 1 move:
That when the Senate adjourns today, it do stand
adjourned until Thursday. February, 1, 1996, at fine o'clock
in the morning.
The Hon. the Speaker: Is leave granted?

CHRISTMAS GREETINGS
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, before I call on
Senator Graham to move the adjoumnment motion, I wish to take
this opportunity to wish you ail a Merry Christmas. May 1996 be
good to ail of you. 1 hope that you have a good recess in the
meanti me.

BUSINESS 0F THE SENATE

1 wouid like to express my appreciation to ail those who serve
the Senate for their constant help during the year. We sometimes
tend to forget them. 1 want to remind them that ail honourable
senators appreciate their services. 1 refer flot only to those we se
here if the chamber but to those who work elsewhere and serve
us nonetheless.

Hon. B. Alasdair Graham, Deputy Leader of the
Government: Honourable senators, there seems to be a
disposition that ail remaining orders and motions stand.

The Senate aqjourned until Thursday, February 1, 1996, at
9 a.m.

Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Motion agreed to.

THE SENATE
Thursday, February 1, 1996
Tbe Senate met at 9:00 a.m.. tbe Speaker in tbe Cbair.
Prayers.
NEW SENATOR
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, I bave the
bonour te inform tbe Senate tbat tbe Clerk bas received a
certificate from tbe Registrar General of Canada showing tbat
Sbirley Mabeu bas been summoned te tbe Senate:
INTRODUCTION

The Hon. the Speaker baving informed tbe Senate tbat tbere
was a senator witbout, waiting te be introduced:
Tbe following bonourable senator was introduced; presented
Rer Majesty's writ of summons; took tbe oatb prescribcd by law.
wbicb was administered by tbe Clerk; and was seated:
Hon. Shirley Maheu, of Rougemont, Quebec. introduced
between tbe Hon. B. Alasdair Grabam and Hon. Lise Bacon.
The Hon. the Speaker informed tbe Senate that tbe
bonourable senator named above bad made and subscribed tbe
declaration of qualification required by tbe Constitution Act.
1867. in tbe presence of tbe Clerk of' tbe Senate. tbe
Commissioner appointed te receive and witness tbe said
declaration.
[Translation]
Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourable senators. I would like te wisb a
cordial welcome te tbis cbamber te our new colleague, Senator
Sbirley Mabeu of Saint-Laurent, Quebec.
[En glish]

hand in the debates in the other place, an experience wbich may
be ot great value in this chamber.
Over the years, Senator Mabeu bas worked on a number of
boards and organizations in ber community. including belping Io
found tbe Carrefour Multi-Etbnique, a group whicb belps
refugees and immigrants adapt to Canadian life. Sbe has been
associated witb tbe Red Cross,. tbe Insurance Brokers of Quebec,
and tbe Cbamber of Commerce of Saint-Laurent, ail of wbicb
will assist ber contribution to tbe work of this chamber and its
committees.
Along witb ber personal warmtb and good bumour, Senator
Mabeu brings witb ber a passion for tbis country and tbe place of
ber province witbin tbis country. We warmly welcome Senator
Mabeu as a colleague, and we look forward to sbaring tbat
commitment bere in tbe Senate.
Hon. Senators: Hear. bear!
[Translation]1
Hon. John Lynch-Staunton (Leader of the Opposition):
Honourable senators. 1 join my colleagues in wîsbing tbe most
cordial ot welcemes te our new senater from tbe regien of'
Montreal, and te wisb ber tbe greatest success in ber new duties.
[En çlisliJ
It is interesting te see tbat anotber former member of tbc
House of Commons is joining us. We benefit from tbe experience
tbat many current senators bave gained in the House of
Commons, and tbey of course bave benefitted from tbe fact tbat.
once bere, tbey soon realize tbat some of the tbings tbey may
bave heard and even said about tbis place are. sball we say.
sligbtly exaggerated. I bave no doubt tbat our new colleague will
quickly realize tbat tbis bouse bas an extraordinary amount of'
knowledge, breadtb of experience and political savvy wbicb
sbould be tbe envy of tbe House of Commons, and te wbicb sbe
will no doubt make ber own special contribution.

Weil known on Parliament Hill and te many colleagues in tbis
cbamber, she bas represented tbe riding of Saint-ILaurentCartierville since 1988.

[La ter]

Senator Mabeu bas devoted berseif' te being a voice for tbe
people of tbe community sbe bas represented se well. Before
coming te Ottawa, sbe served for six years as a municipal
councillor for Saint-Laurent, wbcre sbe is simply known as
"Sbirley," wbicb I believe is indeed a tribute te ber genuine
warmtb and commitment.

Hon. Marcel Prud'homme: Honourable senators. 1 take great
pleasure in wisbing Senator Mabeu tbe most cordial of
welcomes. During my political career I bad occasion te come te
know ber well. since we sat togetber on tbe Liberal caucus. You
know wbat tragedies often occur in politics wben tbere is an
electoral redistribution.

As a member of Parliament . Senator Mabeu was appointed
critic for multiculturalisni and citizensbip in 1990. Sbe served as
Deputy Cbair on tbe Standing Cemmittee on Mtilticulturalism
and Citizenship. In 1994, she became tbe Deputy Chair et the
Cemimittees of' the Whole Heuse. a rote which requires a tirmn

1 bad to cbange ridings four times. Tbe fourtb time. Senater
Mabeu certainly took tbe most Liberal portion of my area. Nincty
pcr cent et' those she acquircd from Saint-Denis veted Liberal.
CeniseqLlCitly. 1 had te reorganize. wbich 1 did successlully,
despite the efforts et a lriend. ai senator wbemi 1 shall not naine.

[Translation]

February 1, 1996

February 1, 1996

SENATE DEBATES
SENATE DEBATES

I would like to mention here this morning one particular
reason why I am familiar with Senator Maheu. We are often
asked to visit schools and colleges, part of a good elected
representative's duties. I always give as my answer something I
learned from my father when he was a Montreal municipal
councillor: devotion first and foremost to those we represent.
As Senator Graham has said, if someone called Senator
Maheu's office, there would always be a response. The call
would be taken and there would be a call back. In
Saint-Laurent-Dollard, a call to the office of Mrs. Maheu could
always be counted on to bring a reply, although not always a
favourable one. Her staff lent an attentive ear. Ms Maheu was
available on weekends. She had those two qualities: devotion to
duty coupled with availability. This is a well-known fact in the
entire riding of Saint-Laurent.
That is a riding I have always envied. I nearly represented it,
but circumstances would have it otherwise. It is a riding of high
economic activity. Imagine, 70,000 jobs, when the population is
70,000.
[English]

Seventy thousand jobs in a city that has around 70,000 people
- that shows the dynamism of the city that Shirley Maheu
mainly represented, including a part of Montreal called
Cartierville.
[Translation]

retirement age, but at least we can prepare for such an
eventuality. A voluntary retirement, however, is both unusual and
unexpected, thereby making it even more difficult to accept.
John Sylvain has not made me privy to the reasons for his
decision to leave us. On the other hand, I have not hidden from
him my distress and that of my colleagues at his having taken
that decision, not only because it now allows our friends opposite
to be numerically superior to those who form the Official
Opposition, although I do admit that this is of more than passing
concern, but because the entire Senate will miss the benefit of the
knowledge and experience of a colleague who has not made
insignificant contributions to the legislative process of
Parliament.
As a member of the Standing Senate Committee on Banking,
Trade and Commerce, and more recently as its deputy chairman,
he distinguished himself in both debate and the study of bills. He
was a member of the Special Joint Committee on Defence Policy
which gained a great deal from his familiarity with the Armed
Forces as a member of the RCAF during the war and later with
the Royal Canadian Ordinance Corps. He also made a special
contribution to the subcommittee which studied the film
The Valour and the Horror.

Whether in committee or in this chamber, his interventions
were always thoughtful and well prepared. It is hard to believe
that his accomplishments here were all achieved in less than five
and a half years. All of us will miss him.

She had, however, an extraordinary associate, her husband
René. Of course, in the riding, this does not in any way diminish
the talents of Senator Maheu. He is always there, representing his
wife when Senator Maheu is in Ottawa to fulfil her parliamentary
duties. I want to include him on this memorable day in his wife's
life and thank him for what he has done. And there is more.
There are Senator Maheu's four children: Ronald, Richard,
Daniel and Marc, one of whom made his mark in the municipal
council of Saint-Laurent. There is a family of six, plus
grandchildren, all involved in making Senator Maheu's term as a
member of the House of Commons a success. I just wanted to
mention this for the record.

[Translation]

I am delighted, I must say, but someone has decided to keep us
apart. I do not know why you are away over there. My fellow
independent senator came to sit on our side, but she was put way
over there. We are very close, just the same. I wish you a most
cordial welcome, and I only hope that our long friendship will
continue throughout our years together in the Senate.

To say the very least, Senator Sylvain is a gentleman in every
sense of the word. He is distinguished, hard-working, and I have
found him quite down to earth. He has made a fine contribution
to the work of this place, and most certainly as a representative
of the province of Quebec.

[Englishl

THE HONOURABLE JOHN SYLVAIN
TRIBUTES ON RESIGNATION FROM SENATE

Hon. John Lynch-Staunton (Leader of the Opposition):
Honourable senators. I should like to make a few remarks about
the senator who has just left us. It is always with regret that we
bid farewell to a colleague when he or she reaches the mandatory

On behalf of all of my colleagues, I should like to express our
thanks to Senator Sylvain for his contributions to the Senate and
to our caucus, as well as our very best wishes for the future to
him, his wife Yolande and ail of his family.
[English]

Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourable senators, I wish to join with my
colleague opposite to pay tribute to Senator Sylvain of
Rougemont, Quebec.

John Sylvain has a history of service to this country going
back to the years he served in the Royal Canadian Air Force as a
bombardier navigator during the Second World War and
afterwards as a captain with the Royal Canadian Ordinance
Corps until 1949. After receiving a Bachelor of Commerce
degree from the University of Ottawa back in 1950, he embarked
on an extensive career in the insurance business, culminating in a
term as President and Chief Executive Officer of United
Provinces Insurance Company from 1976 to 1982 and as a
consultant for Dale-Parizeau Insurance Brokers from 1982 to
1992.

This background has been of great benefit to the Senate,
particularly to the Standing Senate Committee on Banking, Trade
and Commerce, where he was able to apply his expertise, as a
member and more recently as deputy chair, on several pieces of
legislation and on a number of complex issues facing the
financial industry. His military experience bas also provided
valuable insight to his work as a member of the Subcommittee on
Veterans Affairs. as was mentioned by the Leader of the
Opposition, and the Special Joint Committee on Canada's
Defence Policy.
Above all, honourable senators, he bas been an articulate and
dedicated advocate for his country. Remarking on the feelings of
patriotism Canadians expressed during the referendum, he said:
I believe we can build on these feelings, and move toward
redefining our country. There is much unfinished work to
do...
There certainly is much work to do, and we know that John
Sylvain will continue to be a strong voice in Quebec as the
debate for the future of Canada and al] its citizens unfolds in the
weeks and months ahead.
In working with Senator Sylvain, I personally found him to be
formidable, well-informed, direct and always fair. We will miss
him here. We will miss his commitment, his humour and his
friendship.
On behalf of all my colleagues, I congratulate him for his
splendid work in this institution. We convey our warmest wishes
to him and to his family.
Hon. Michael Kirby: Honourable senators, 1, too, would join
with Senator Lynch-Staunton and Senator Graham in honouring
our colleague the Honourable John Sylvain.
We have heard this morning about Senator Sylvain's service to
Canada in the military, in public life, and his profound personal
interest in national unity. As Chairman of the Standing Senate
Committee on Banking, Trade and Commerce, however, I would
comment on Senator Sylvain's service from a somewhat different
perspective. I worked with Senator Sylvain a great deal during
his five years in the Senate, and more particularly during the last
two years when he served as deputy chairman of the Banking
Committee.
John Sylvain brought to the committee tremendous experience
with financial institutions, and the insurance business in
particular. His understanding of the financial services industry
was extremely valuable to the committee over the last five years,
and in particular during our hearings concerning the collapse of
Confederation Life. The ensuing report of the Standing Senate
Committee on Banking, Trade and Commerce included a series
of recommendations to the government regarding policy changes
which could minimize the risk of future insurance company
failures. Virtually all of those recommendations were
subsequently adopted in legislation passed by Parliament a few
months ago.

[ Senatoi Grahan ]

Much of the work and the expertise that went into the
development of those recommendations was that of Senator
Sylvain. He not only brought to this task his understanding of the
issues, he brought something else which I think has been
fundamental in helping build the reputation of the Standing
Senate Committee on Banking, Trade and Commerce; namely, he
approached all such business issues in an absolutely non-partisan
fashion. Because of his approach to the issues and his willingness
to seek a non-partisan solution to complex business problems,
every single bill which came before the committee during
Senator Sylvain's time as deputy chairman was passed
unanimously. We were able to reach the compromises that
worked best for public and business policy, as opposed to those
that would reflect particular political ideologies.
As committee members, we will miss Senator Sylvain during
our future deliberations; we will miss his judgment, experience
and non-partisanship. I have come to know Senator Sylvain as a
friend as well as a Senate colleague, and I personally will miss
his advice, his understanding and his company.
On behalf of the committee, I wish Senator Sylvain, his wife
and family all the best, and thank him for his faithful and
outstanding service to Canada.
Hon. Senators: Hear, hear!
Hon. Colin Kenny: Honourable senators, 1, too, am pleased to
have had the privilege of serving with Senator John Sylvain on a
number of associations and committees. Our shared interest in
defence matters brought us together as members on the Canadian
NATO Parliamentary Association, as well as on the joint
committee on Canada's defence policy.
Senator Sylvain served with distinction in World War Il as an
RCAF officer, flying missions in Europe, Africa and Asia. He
was a never-ending source of military expertise.
Some of my most memorable moments in the Senate have
been on association and committee trips in the company of
Senator Sylvain. With the Canadian NATO Parliamentary
Association, we travelled to Madrid, to Bruges and to
Washington. We crossed Canada and northern America and went
to Europe as members of the Special Joint Committee on
Canada's Defence Policy. John always brought common sense
and gentle reason to our deliberations. He always put Canada
first. He will be sorely missed by me and by all members of this
house.
I wish him well. I know he is leaving to spend more time with
Yolande, and with his six children. I wish him a happy
retirement.
[Translation]
Hon. Louis J. Robichaud: Honourable senators, I would also
like to welcome Senator Maheu. I am saddened by the departure
of Senator Sylvain. There was talk of two happy events. Senator
Sylvain is leaving at his own request. for the best, for himselif.

February

1, 1996

SENATE DEBATES

2553

TRIBUTES

I join with all my colleagues in extending to his family, to his
wife and his two children in particular, and to his many friends.
my deepest condolences.

Hon. Louis J. Robichaud: Honorable senators, we have in the
Senate a tradition whereby we mark the passing of those who sat
as senators for several years. At this time, I would like to do
something that is very painful for me, and something that
I rarely do. I am sad to say that our former colleague,
Fernand E. Leblanc, recently passed away.

Hon. Peter Stollery: Honourable senators, I should like to add
my words to the respect being paid to our former colleague
Senator Leblanc, with whom I served in four parliaments in the
House of Commons and here in the Senate. He was a fine man
and I should like to take this opportunity to add my own respects
and my regrets to his family.

THE LATE HONOURABLE FERNAND E. LEBLANC

As many of you will know, Senator Leblanc was a very fine
member of Parliament, and a very fine senator. He chaired the
National Finance Committee, something of which he was very
proud. He occupied the office next to mine in the East Block. He
was a great friend, and will be sorely missed. I want to express
my deepest sympathy to Ms Claire Leblanc and their two sons,
François and Daniel.
Hon. Marcel Prud'homme: Honourable senators, I wanted to
welcome Senator Maheu and then express my regret at the
departure of Senator Sylvain. It is appropriate for me to say a
word about my friend Senator Leblanc. We were elected on the
same day, February 10, 1964.
[English]

We both were elected in a by-election in 1964. Mr. Leblanc
replaced the Honourable Lionel Chevrier, and I replaced the
Honourable Senator Azellus Denis.
[Translation]

Like his father-in-law before him, Senator Leblanc was the last
senator of a Liberal regime. In 1957, his father-in-law, Senator
Lefrançois, was the last senator appointed under Louis
St. Laurent.
In 1979, in order to provide a seat for David Berger, now our
ambassador to Israel, Senator Leblanc gave up his seat in the
House and joined us in the Senate.
There is no need for me to tell you that my family and I share
the sentiments expressed by Senator Robichaud, since the two
families have been associated for some 50 years. I therefore join
with Senator Robichaud in offering our most sincere condolences
to Senator Leblanc's wife and their two children.
[English]

Hon. John Lynch-Staunton (Leader of the Opposition): I
too should like to join with Senator Robichaud and Senator
Prud'homme in deploring the loss of our former colleague, who
only had less than three years to enjoy his retirement from this
place. The late Senator Leblanc has left us a legacy, particularly
with regard to the special status his chairmanship gave to the
National Finance Committee, the work he did on that committee,
and the standards he established in the study of Estimates and in
the general supervision and examination of public finances. He
had a special rapport with various government officials,
particularly those at the Treasury Board. The committee attained
special standing which it maintains today.

THE LATE RENÉ JALBERT
TRIBUTES

Hon. Lise Bacon: Honourable senators, it is with much
sadness and regret that I rise today to pay tribute to one of our
country's great heroes, René Jalbert, who passed away on the
moming of January 21, shortly before his 75th birthday, having
lost a courageous battle with cancer.
Mr. Jalbert was a hard-working, dedicated man of tremendous
loyalty, respect, and high acclaim. The praise is justified, due to
his lengthy record of service to both Quebec and Canada.
Mr. Jalbert was office administrator for a Quebec delegation in
New York City from 1969 to 1971 and then spent three years as
Joint Protocol Chief of Intergovemmental Services. He became
Sergeant-at-Arms for the Quebec National Assembly in 1974.
Many honourable senators may have had an opportunity to make
Mr. Jalbert's acquaintance here in this chamber, where he ably
served as Gentleman Usher of the Black Rod from July 1985 to
June 1989. When he left the Senate, he assumed responsibilities
as a Citizenship Court Judge in Montreal for a period of five
years, a term that ended only two years ago when he was
72 years old.
Honourable senators, you may recall that René Jalbert was
awarded the Cross of Valour, Canada's highest declaration for
bravery, in 1985, after he persuaded a heavily armed Corporal
Denis Lortie to surrender himself to Quebec police officials
following the gunman's shooting spree in the Quebec National
Assembly. He was heralded for his bravery and quick thinking.
He was hesitant to accept such praise, but did so with a great
amount of modesty and humility.
Mr. Jalbert enjoyed a distinguished, 27-year military career.
He served in England and France in World War Il. In 1945, he
was transferred to the Carleton and York Regiment, where he
became a captain, and subsequently became a helicopter
commander. In 1952, he became a company commander of the
Royal 22nd Regiment, Quebec's famed Van Doos, serving in
Korea and Germany. In 1961, he was assigned as military liaison
for the International Control Commission in Vietnam, and later
served in Cyprus until 1969.
[Translation]

Honourable senators. allow me to borrow a few words from
the eulogy given by Mr. Jalbert's daughter.

Mr. Jalbert
courage during
was always in
witbin bis own

earned bigb praise and was decorated for his
tbe National Assembly sbooting. This man. wbo
a good mood. was neyer less tban modest even
family.

I tbink tbat aIl tbose wbo knew bim neyer failed to notice
Mr. Jalbert's cbaracteristic modesty. even ater tbe May 8. 1984
events. Obviously. tbis former soldier was in no burry to retire
and worked almost until tbe end.
After Ottawa. as Ms Jalbert said, we tbougbt that be would
slow down. He. bowever. went on to serve as a Citizensbip Court
judge in Montreal for four years before bis mandate came to an
end.
On bebaîf of tbe Senate. may I convey our bearttelt
condolences to Nanette Jalbert, ber daugbter, Linda. and ber son.
Marc. 1 think tbat aIl tbose wbo knew Mr. Jaibert feel a fiie
ricber for having met sucb a man.

Hon. Thérèse Lavoie-Roux: Honourable senators. 1 too want
to say a few words to mark René Jalbert's passing. I was in the
National Assembly wben the dramatic events we aIl know about
occurred. We knew bim before. of' course. since we used to rub
shoulders witb bim every day. He was a very nice and, no doubt,
very courageous man. We did not know as mucb about bis
military career at tbe time.
1 tbink one must experience tbe anxiety and distress we felt
during those terrible events to really undcrstand Mr. Jalbert's
courage, strengtb. sang-froid and sense of responsibility to
otbers.

Assembly was able to appreciate his tremendous qualities. wbicb
Senator Bacon and Senator Lavoje-Roux mentioned.
As a member ot the National Assembly. like Mr. Jalbert 1
experienced tragedy right up close. Let me remind this House of
the outstanding and extraordinary courage shown by Mr. Jalbert
on that occasion. The kind ot courageous. noble and engaging
action that Mr. Jalbert took at the time reflects a lifetime of
self-effacement. dedication, sincerity and a senise of' duty. as
Senator Lavoie-Roux indicated.
Like everyone in Quebec and everywbere in Canada, in the
Armed Forces, in the Senate and at Citizenship Court who was
fortunate enough to know Mr. Jalbert. I shaîl miss bim. He
personified, to the fullest and even to excess - with bis courage
the greatness of a noble, wortby and eminently respectable
human being. wbom we shall aIl miss.

Hon. Fernand Roberge: Honourable senators, 1 too wisb to
pay tribute to the great Canadian tbat René Jalbert was. After a
brilliant career in the military, René Jalbert served bis fellow
citizens at tbe National Assembly and received the higbest
accolades after the Lortie incident. He demonstrated outstanding
courage and sangfroid. thus preventing worse bloodsbed.
Later, Mr. Jalbert came to Ottawa and became Gentleman
Usher of the Black Rod. His good humour and infectious smile
toucbed his family and friends. I am very proud of' having been
counted among bis friends. 1 would like to offer my deepest
condolences to bis wife, Nanette. bis daughter, Linda. who
worked for me f'or many years. and bis son, Marc.
[Later]

1 was not in Quebec City for Mr. Jalbert's funeral but 1 saw it
on television. and 1 felt saddened. He was 74 years old. That is
not so old. Some of the bonourable senators in tbis cbamber are
74 years old. 1 tbink. and 1 am sure that tbey are not ready to go
tomorrow. 1 frît especially sorry for bis wife, son and daugbter
wbo can be extremely proud of bim.
As Senator Bacon and Ms Jalbert pointed out earlier, be was a
very modest man. As a matter of fact. 1 tbink tbat sucb modesty
is the mark of ail great men and women. At one point. someone
even wanted to make a movie of tbe events. but be would neyer
bave gone along witb tbat kind of tbing. He felt lie had donc
nothing but bis duty.
1 tbink that tbe time bas come to reiterate bow grateful we are
to bim. Again. 1 wisb to express our sincere condolences to
Mrs. Jalbert and ber cbildren. For young and old alike,
Mr. Jalbert wiIl remain a model of botb sobriety and courage, as
evidenced by tbe Cross of'Valour be was awarded. He wilI be a
model for ail tbose wbo, at some point in tbeir lives, bave to
assume major responsibilities. He did bis brave deed unseltisbly.
because it was bis duty. One must be aware that even tbougb
doing one's duty may seem like an outdated concept in today's
society. one wbicb unfortunately appears to bave no value. we
still need people like binm in real lite. people witb a profound
sense of duty. Tbank you. Mr. Jaîberi.

Hon. Jean-Claude Rivest: Honourable senators. 1 would hike
to associate mx selI uith aIl these tributes. Anvone xxho worked
witb tbis oentleinan in tbe Senate or- in tbe Quebec National
1Senatoi

Bacon 1

1
Etglish

SENATORS' STATEMENTS
CANADIAN WAR MUSEUM
TERMINATION 0F EMPLOYMENT 0F VETERANS

Hon. Gerry St. Germain: Honourable senators. 1 was
outraged recently to bear that the Canadian War Museum advised
13 veterans of tbe Corps of Commissionaires. Il World War Il
veterans and two Korean War veterans, tbat tbeir services were
no longer required as tour guides at the museum. Tbese veterans
are to be reassigned. and wiIl be replaced by individuals wbo are
flot veterans.
Most of tbe veterans working at the war museum are well into
tbeir seventies and will be retiring soon. However. rather tban
allowing tbem to finisb tbeir careers by working at tbe museum.
tbe government bas ordered tbem out. Tbe abrupt manner in
wbicb tbese veterans were notified of their termination is notbing
less tban disgraceful. Tbey deserve better from tbeir country.
Tbese veterans served our country witb bonour. courage and
distinction. Tbey. and tbey alone. cani bring an important and
unique perspective Io this bistoric museurm. Our children sbould
know about Canada\s si enifticant contribution iii protecti ns
denliocrazcN, and freedonm in tbe \world. and vwho betier to tell tbcmn
about tbait tan the veterans ol these confliets?

February 1, 1996
February 1, 1996

2555

SENATE DEBATES

2555

SENATE DEBATES

I, more than most. believe that the government should make
every effort 10 reduce spending and eliminate waste. However,
the performance of these jobs by these people is flot wasteful. We
cannot afford to forget those who answered the cati of their
country in a time of need. In these times when Canadians are
debating the very future of our country, it is important to have
input from those who can remind us of the human price that was
paid for protecting this country. Perhaps then Canadians wilI
realize that we owe it to those who died protecting our country to
keep our country unified.
1 urge the goverfiment to reconsider this decision and to allow
these 13 veterans to conclude their careers at the Canadian War
Museum.

THE HONOURABLE MURIEL MCQUEEN FERGUSSON

[En glish]

ROUTINE PROCEEDINGS
INTERNAL ECONOMY, BUDGETS AND
ADMINISTRATION
FORTY-THIRD REPORT 0F COMMITTEE PRESENTED

Hon. Colin Kenny, Chairman of the Standing Committee on
InternaI Economy, Budgets and Administration, presented the
following report:
Thursday, February 1, 1996
The Standing Committee on Internai Economy, Budgets
and Administration has the honour to present its
FORTY-THIRD REPORT

TRIBUTE TO FIRST FEMALE SPEAKER 0F THE SENATE

Hon. Rose-Marie Losier-Cool: Honourable senators, 1 rise
today to bring you greetings from the first femnale speaker of the
Senate, Senator Muriel McQueen Fergusson of New Brunswick.
I met Mrs. Fergusson at the screening of a documentary entitled
The Honourable Muriel McQueen Fergusson which premiered
at a private ceremony in Fredericton, New Brunswick on
January 17.
Senator Fergusson is now 96 years young. and alert. She is
planning a visit to the Senate and t0 Ottawa this spring. She
wishes you ail a very happy 1996.

The documentary depicts Mrs. Fergusson as no ordinary
philanthropist, but a person responsible for guiding the course of
Canadian history, particularly for women. Semra Yüksel, a
Turkish-born producer, was so intrigued by Senator Fergusson
that she dedicated more than five years of her time to making this
25-minute documentary. Her company is called Arcolect
International. With help from the CBC, the Canadian-New
Brunswick Cooperation Agreement on Cultural Development,
the National Film Board of Canada and Atlantic Media Works,
this documentary was made possible. It will be shown on CBC
on February 3 at eight o'clock and, according to our wishes,
perhaps here at the Senate in March.
[Translation]

Your Committee recommends the adoption of a
Supplementary Estimate of $3,265,000 for fiscal year
1995-96.
This Supplementary Estimate is requested to fund
unanticipated expenses and capital expenditures for the
current fiscal year and will result in significant savings.
Initiatives recommended for implementation include the
installation of in-house printing capabilities and an Early
Departure Incentive Program which are expected to result in
annual savings of $1.2 million.
After an initial capital investment of $885,000, operating
costs for information and printing will be reduced by
85.6 per cent and annual savings will amount to $600,000.
These expenditures have a payback period of between
16 and 18 months, significantly less than the time that
Treasury Board uses as a guideline.

This Supplementary Estimate will also cover essential
upgrades to the Senate's computer network communications
capacity and compatibility with the House of Commons and
Library of Parliament.
As the Main Estimates are prepared 12 10 18 months in

advance, special and joint committees will also be funded
by this Supplementary Estimate.
Respectfully submitted,

COLIN KENNY,
Honourable senators, I had neyer met Senator Fergusson

before January 17. I had heard about her work. especially with
respect to women in New Brunswick, and knowing this made me
even prouder to be a member of the Senate and to represent New
Brunswick in particular.

Chairman

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, when shaîl this
report be taken into consideration?
On motion of Senator Kenny. report placed on the Orders of
the Day for consideration at the next sitting of the Senate.

FORTY FOURTH REPORT 0F COMMITTEE PRESENTED

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, when shall this
report be taken into consideration?

Hon. Colin Kenny. Chairman of the Standing Committee on
InternaI Economy. Budgets and Administration. presented the
following report:

On motion of Senator Kenny, report placed on the Orders of
the Day for consideration at the next sitting of the Senate.

Thursday. February 1, 1996

CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENTS BILL

The Standing Committce on InternaI Economy, Budgets
and Administration has the honour to present ils

REPORT OF SPECIAL SENATE COMMI1TEE ON BILL C-1l10
PRESENTED AND PRINTED AS APPENDIX

FORTY FOURTH REPORT

Hon. NoëlI A. Kinsella: Honourable senators I have the
honour to present the report of the Special Committee of the
Senate on Bill C-I 110, an act respecting constitutional
amendments, which contains three amendments. I ask that the
report be printed as an appendix to the Minutes of the
Proceedings of the Senate of this day.

Your Committee has examined and approved the Senate
Estimates for the fiscal year 1996-97 and recommends their
adoption.
A summary of the Expenditure
accompanies this report.

Budget 1996-97

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, is il agreed?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.

Respectfully submitted,

(For text of report, see todaY ' Minutes of the Proceedings of
the Senate.)

COLIN KENNY,
Chairmian
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, when shall this
report be taken into consideration?
On motion of Senator Kenny. report placed on the Orders of
the Day for consideration at the next sitting of the Senate.

Hon. Colin Kenny, Chairman of the Standing Committee on
Internai Economy, Budgets and Administration, presented the
following report:
Thursday, February 1, 1996
The Standing Committec on Interna] Economy. Budgets
and Administration has the honour to present ils
FORTY-FIFTH REPORT
Your Committee has examined and approved the budget
presented bo il by the Special Committee of the Senate on
Bill C-1 10, An Act respecting constitutional amendments,
for the proposed expenditures of the said Committee. as
authorized by the Senate on December 15, 1995. The said
budget is as follows:
100
$5.000

Total
Respectully submitted,
COLIN KENNY.
chLlirinaLn

On motion of Senator Kinsella, report placed on the Orders of
the Day f'or consideration later this day.
[Translation]

FORTY-FIFTH REPORT 0F COMMIITEE PRESENTED

Ail other expenditures

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, when shall this
report be taken into consideration?

CANADIAN UNITY
NOTICE 0F MOTION TO ESTABLISH SPECIAL SENATE COMMJTTEE
Hon. Gérald-A. Beaudoin: Honourable senators, with leave
of the Senate and notwithstanding rule 57(1 )(d), 1 give notice that
on Friday. February 2, 1996, I will move:
That a special committee of the Senate be appointed
examine and report upon the question of Canadian unity;

10

That, notwithstanding rule 85(l)(b), the Honourable
Beaudoin, Camey, Carstairs,
Andreychuk,
Senators
De Bané, Gauthier, Kinsella, Lewis, Marchand, Meighen,
Murray and Rivest act as members of the Special
Committee;
That the Committee have the power t0 engage the
services of such counsel and technical, clerical and other
personnel as may be necessary for the purpose of ils
examination and consideration of the said order of
reference;
That the Committee have the power 10 send for persons.
papers and records. 10 examine witnesses, and to print such
papers and evidence trom day to day as may he ordered by
the Committee:

SENATE DEBATES

Februarv 1 1996
1

February

1996

2557

That the Committee have power to adjourn from place to
place within Canada;

Senate on October 17, 1995, by the Honourable Senator Kinsella,
regarding trade in goods manufactured in labour camps; a
response to a question raised in the Senate on November 8, 1995,
by the Honourable Senator Nolin, regarding the search and
rescue helicopter replacement program, the proportion of
Canadian content in contract bids; a response to a question raised
in the Senate on November 23, 1995, by the Honourable Senator
Doyle, regarding the sale of Airbus aircraft to Air Canada, the
rank of RCMP officers engaged in the investigation; a response
to a question raised in the Senate on December 5, 1995, by the
Honourable Senator Comeau, regarding the replacement search
and rescue helicopters; and a response to a question raised in the
Senate on December 12, 1995, by the Honourable Senator
Comeau, regarding the search and rescue helicopter replacement
program.

That the Committee submit its final report no later than
December 15, 1996; and

ENVIRONMENT

That the papers and evidence received by the Special
Senate Committee on Bill C- 110 in the First Session of the
Thirty-fifth Parliament be deemed to have been referred to
the Special Committee hereby appointed;
That the Committee have the power to sit during sittings
and adjournments of the Senate;
That the Committee be empowered to permit coverage by
electronic media of its public proceedings with the least
possible disruption of its hearings;

That notwithstanding usual practices, if the Senate is not
sitting when the final report of the Committee is completed,
the Committee shall deposit its report with the Clerk of the
Senate, and said report shall thereupon be deemed to have
been tabled in this Chamber.
[English]

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, is leave
granted?
Hon H. A. Olson: No.
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, in that case, the
notice will stand. Leave bas been requested to deal with this
motion tomorrow and denied. As two days' notice is normally
required, instead of tomorrow this matter will be put on the
Orders of the Day for consideration at the next sitting following.

QUESTION PERIOD
THE SENATE
ABSENCE OF GOVERNMENT LEADER FROM CHAMBER

Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourable senators, it is with regret that I must
inform the Senate that the Leader of the Government in the
Senate, Senator Fairbairn, is unavoidably absent today due to
illness. I am hopeful that she will be here with her usual vigour
tomorrow to answer all questions any honourable senators may

have. In the meantime, we would be happy to take notice of any
questions, as usual.

DELAYED ANSWERS TO ORAL QUESTIONS
Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourable senator. I have a response to a

question raised in the Senate on June 21, 1995, by the
Honourable Senator Andreychuk. regarding changes to the
weather reporting service: a response to a question raised in the

I Senator Grahamn

]

CHANGES TO WEATHER REPORTING
SERVICE ADVERSELY AFFECTING RURAL
AND ISOLATED AREAS-GOVERNMENT POSITION

(Response to question raised by Hon. A. Raynell Andrevchuk

on June 21, 1995)
The safety and security of Canadians is not being affected
by the changes to the Weather Services. Alerting of
Canadians to severe and significant weather events remains
a high priority for Environment Canada (EC). These
warnings are freely available to Canadians through:
- Distribution through media partners
- WeatherRadio/WeatherCopy

- Automated Telephone Answering Devices (ATADs)
Rural and isolated areas continue to receive timely
warnings of significant and severe weather through the
excellent collaborative relationship between EC, media
organizations (radio and television) and emergency
measures organizations.
Routine weather information is also available through
these means. Note that Environment Canada does not use
1-800 services to distribute its weather information, but
instead relies on the mass distribution capabilities of its
partners and the other methods noted above.
In addition to these services, a 1-900 service is available
for users who have specialized needs for weather
information. The 1-900 service carres detailed weather
information for a particular application specifically tailored
to those who need to make decisions that will likely have an
economic impact on their line of business. Examples of
these would be construction companies. film companies,
and other planners of outdoor activities. These clearly
identifiable clients with specialized needs are served
through the 1-900 service for a fee, and it would not be
expected to support this activity from the tax base.

Envirotoment Canada is fully embracing the Quality
Service Initiative to ensure that Canadians receive the best
level of service that we can aftord:
Policies on levels of service are being developed and
service standards are being implemented.

the aircraft sub-systems, integrated logistic support, and
follow-on in-service support.

JUSTICE

-

- Front-line employees are becoming increasingly
service-oriented in this era of downsizing.

-Users of ail of EC services are polled on a regular basis
to ensure that the service they receive meets with their
needs.
- EC remains in close contact with the media. who are
important partners in delivering weather information to
Canadians.

CANADA-CHINA RELATIONS
TRADE IN GOODS MANUFACTURED IN LABOUR
CAMPS GOVERNMENT POLICY

(Response ta a question raised bY Hon. Noël A. Kinsella on
October 17, 1995)
Schedule 7 of the Cuistois Tari/fs Act prohibits the
importation of' any products produced by prisoners (trom
any country). Any allegations concerning entry of' products
produced by prisoners is brought to the attention of'
Canadian customs officiais for appropriate action. No cases
of importation of such goods lrom China have been detected
to date.

NATIONAL DEFENCE
SEARCH AND RESCUE HELICOPTER REPLACEMENT
PROGRAM-PROPORTION OF CANADIAN CONTENT
IN CONTRACT BIDS-REOUEST FOR PARTICULARS

(Response t() question raised bY' Hon. Pierre Clauide No/li on
Novi'enber 8, 199-5)
As previnnsly annnnnced hy the Minister of National
Detence, the procurement strategy for the acquisition of the
new Search and Rescue Helicopters is to be an open
competition. Bids will be evaluated as to their compliancy
with the stated operational requirements and their price.
Bidders will also be expected to present suitable industrial
and regional benefits plans. That may include direct
benefits. i.e., direct Canadian content, or indirect henetits.
No specific goal has been set with respect to Canadian
content on the helicopter. That is left 10 each bidder to
propose. While sorne Canadian content is expected. given
that the strategy is to acquire a proven otf-the-shelt
bel icopter. oportuliti es loi- direct content wi Il he niore
limited than ift a n1e\w. dev\e lopmnenta I ai rcraft \vas bein(,
considcred. Canadian content is more like lx tromn sonie of

SALE 0F AIRBUS AIRCRAFT TO AIR CANADA-ALLEGED
CONSPIRACY TO DEFRAUD FEDERAL GOVERNMENT-RANK
OF RCMP OFFICERS ENGAGED IN INVESTIGATION

(Response to question raîsed bY' Hon. Richard J. Dovie on
Noî'ember 23, 1995)
The Sergeant rank is the senior investigator level within
the RCMP Major Fraud Unit of the Ottawa Commercial
Crime Section. This Unit is responsible for the investigation
of secret commissions and the senior member of this unit
was assigned. The Major Fraud Unit is supervised by an
Inspector who has participated in, and is currently
participating. in ail aspects of this investigation. The Offîcer
in Charge of the Criminal Operations Branch of the RCMP
"A" Division is at the level of Chief Superintendeni and is
responsible for aIl criminal investigations within his
Division. This Officer is monitoring thîs investigation and is
aware of aIl developments as they occur.

TRANSPORT
SEARCH AND RESCUE FIELICOPTER REPLACEMENT
PROGRAM-PURCHASE 0F UNITS WITHOUT
TENDER GOVERNMFNT POSITION

(Responses Io questions raised bY Hon. Gerald J. Colneil on
Deceinber 5, 1995)
The Govemnment has not changed its position with respect
to holding an open bidding process for the selection of' the
replacement search and rescue helicopters. The Government
wiIl ask the private sector to suhmit bids l'or either a
tradîtional purchase or for a lease option. The successful
bidder must meet Department of National Defence
specifications, recommend financing mechanisms. and
provide a maintenance component.
SEARCH AND RESCUE HELICOPTER REPLACEMENT
PROGRAM-SUITABILITY AND SAFETY 0F REPLACEMENT
UNITS GOVERNMENT POSITION

The Department of National Defence (DND) has reduced
the set of operational requirements f'or the replacement
search and rescue helicopters froni that of' the cancelled
EH-l01 helicopter contract in terms of range, speed.
endurance and capability for flight in icing conditions. By
reducing these requirements, DND is permitting a
broadening of' the potential field of competitors wishing to
supply the replacement helicopter fleet. and is reducing the
cost to taxpayers.
However. the overriding conccrn for the Government
remains that the new hclicopteî s mîust fiîlly saitisly salety
requirements loi- passengers and crew. while prox iding a
stronL, searchi and rescue capabilit\.

SENATE DEBATES

February 1, 1996

2559

NATIONAL DEFENCE

CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENTS BILL

SEARCH AND RESCUE HELICOPTERS
REPLACEMENT PROGRAM-STATEMENT
OF REQUIREMENTS-REQUEST FOR ANSWER

REPORT OF COMMITTEE-DEBATE ADJOURNED

(Response to question raised by Hon. Senator Gerald Comeau
on December 12, 1995)

As announced by the Minister of National Defence during
his November 8th press conference, no decision with
respect to the replacement Maritime helicopter has been
made. However, since the Sea King helicopters are
approaching the end of their operational life, work has
begun to identify options and plans to put into service new,
affordable replacement Maritime helicopters by the end of
the decade.
TRANSPORT
FEDERAL-PROVINCIAL STRATEGIC HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT
PROGRAM-REPORT OF AUDITOR GENERAL ON DIVERSION
OF FUNDS-PERTINENT DOCUMENTS TABLED

Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourable senators, in response to questions
asked in the Senate on November 21, 1995, by Senators
Forrestall and Comeau regarding the Nova Scotia highway
improvement program, I should like to table a number of
documents.

ORDERS OF THE DAY
BUSINESS OF THE SENATE
Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourable senators, before we proceed with the
Orders of the Day, perhaps I could explain that we will be
proceeding with the report of the Special Senate Committee on
Bill C-110 and the debate that follows. As has been agreed, we
will recess from 12:00 p.m. to 2:00 p.m. for the normal lunch
break, at which time the caucus on this side will be meeting. We
will then continue with the Order Paper during the afternoon.
There will be discussion between both sides as to how we shall
proceed.
We will be sitting tomorrow. There is a house order that all
votes relating to Bill C-110 take place not later than 5:30 on
Friday. It may be that by unanimous agreement the vote or votes
will be advanced. Under normal circumstances, we sit on Fridays
at 9:00 a.m. We wish to accommodate ali honourable senators in
that regard and, as has been agreed upon already, there will be
discussion between the leadership on both sides as the day
progresses as to how we might proceed tomorrow.

The Senate proceeded to consideration of the report of the
Special Senate Committee on Bill C-110, respecting
constitutional amendments.
Hon. Noël A. Kinsella: Honourable senators, in speaking to
the motion that this chamber should adopt forthwith the report of
the Special Senate Committee that studied Bill C- 110, respecting
constitutional amendments, we would be adopting three very
important, valuable, valid, legitimate amendments that would
improve immensely the bill and would help to achieve, in a clear,
non-mystical fashion, the objective which the govemment set for
itself in meeting the Prime Minister's commitment.
Honourable senators, before dealing with the report, as
chairman of the committee I should like to say a few words about
the work of the special committee. As honourable senators will
recall, the committee was established on the last sitting day of
the Senate in 1995. The committee was working under an order
of the Senate to report on February 1, 1996. I believe it was
ordered that we report the bill to the Senate before 9:00 a.m.
today. We are a few minutes late in doing so. However, the report
has now been presented.
Given the time we had for our study of Bill C-110, members of
the committee decided to conduct a focused set of hearings. We
heard from over 25 very well-informed, invited witnesses:
witnesses deliberately chosen by the committee in order to keep
our study focused. I believe we achieved that objective.
I listened attentively during the hearing process. I should like
to underscore how greatly impressed I was by the preparation of
all members of the committee. I was impressed by the quality of
the questions and the interventions by all senators who served on
the committee.
It is proper and right to note that there is no question that the
two political parties represented in the Senate of Canada believe
in the future of a united Canada. While we may differ on the
means to achieve this goal, we certainly do not disagree on the
importance of the goal itself. I believe this came through clearly
in our hearings.
Before we can determine whether Bill C-110 is or is not an
appropriate response to the problem of Canadian unity, we must
look at the chain of events which resulted in this bill now being
considered. As we all know - and I will not dwell on it - the
Canadian Constitution, along with the Charter of Rights and
Freedoms, was patriated without the agreement of the
Govemment of Quebec and its National Assembly. This patriated
Constitution had with it an amending formula which did not give
to the province of Quebec a veto over future constitutional
change that may adversely affect that province.

Since that time. there have been two attempts to enshrine in
the Constitution a veto for Quebec. Unfortunately. neither the
1987 Meech Lake Accord nor the Charlottetown accord received
the approvals necessary to become part of our Constitution. Most
recently. when it looked as though the federalist forces in the
Quebec referendum were about to go down in defeat, the Prime
Minister of Canada promised that no constitutional change that
would affect the powers of Quebec should ever be made without
the consent of Quebecers.
On November 29, 1995, the Prime Minister stated:
Quebec has long claimed a veto over amendments to the
Canadian Constitution to ensure that it is a full participant in
the evolution of the Constitution and to have protection
against amendments that could diminish the powers...of' the
National Assembly and the Government of Quebec.
The Government of Canada recognizes the iegitimacy of
those demands.
These are the words that gave rise to Bill C-l11.
Unfortunately. we have heard other words, for exampie, the
words of the Minister of Justice during our committee hearings.
and those of the new Minister of Intergovernmentai Affairs,
Stéphane Dion, when he was sworn in. Both gentlemen have'
described Canada as a "country in crisis" Minister Dion
graphically described our country as being "in bad shape".
When one listens to the words of the Prime Minister and the
words of' these two ministers. one is led to the inevitable
conclusion that the bill before us is a iess than adequate attempt
to address these problems.
Let us consider for a few moments the process associated with
this bill. If we learned anything from the Meech Lake Accord
and the Charlottetown accord. it was that the process is almost as
important as the substance in devising constitutionai amendments
in our country. Above ail, the process must be inclusive of ail
those affected, and in particular those who may believe that their
rights are being diminished by any proposed amendment.
The process followed for deveioping Bill C-1 10 fails the
consultation test. Ail the witnesses who appeared belère us who
were either leamned in matters; of constitutional studies or who
bclicved thcy mîight bc affcctcd tcstificd that they wcre not
consulted, that is. ail witnesses with the exception of the Minister
of Justice and officiais from his department.
The Honourabie Andrew Petter who chairs the National Unity
Comimittee of the Government of British Columbia, the
Honourable Stephen Kakfwi. the Minister of Justice and
Intergovernmental and Aboriginal Affairs; for the Government of
the Northwest Territories. the Honourable Alan Nordling of the
Government of Yukon. and ail the representatives of the
aboriginal peoples ot Canada who appeared before the
committee toid us that they were neyer consulted before this bill
was tabled. Minister Petter cornmenitcd that this lack ot
consultation 'vas *not the wav loi- the I ederal -ox ernment to
I oster national nni tv.-

1Senatr& Kin',eIIa 1

The National Chief of the Assembly of' First Nations, Ovide
Mercredi. was even more outspoken on this point. He stated:
Bill C-I110 represents a significant violation of the legal
principles guiding Crown conduct with respect to Canada's
constitutional and lawful obligations regarding inherent
aboriginal and treaty rights. The process being utilized to,
push this legislation through does flot allow for our input
nor the input of Canadians generally.
Honourable senators, a serious concern about the Iack of
consultation was expressed to the committee. This iack of
consultation. coupled with the problems created by the
questionable wording of the bill, only underscores the suggestion
that the bill was cobbled together quickly. without much thought,
in order for the goverriment to be seen to be doing something
about national unity.
Ms Mary Dawson, Associate Deputy Minister of Justice, in
reply to some of my own questions, admitted that no comparative
studies were ever donc on this model of legislation, and that her
department did flot have a lot of time to prepare the draft bill.
The Minister of Justice. Mr. Rock, was our very first witness.
He let us know that we were now dealing with a Canada of
regions. that if we did flot like the solutions presented by the bill
to the method by which Quebec could secure a veto over
constitutional change. we were flot to worry.
This bill, the minister assured us. need not be a permanent
solution. If some do flot like it. well. it is not intended to satisfy
everyone anyway.
The minister went on to explain that this bill gives us a
modification of the 7-50 amending rule. It operates apart from
the Constitution and it really only fetters the federal govemrment
by binding ministers of the Crown.
Mr. Rock also attempted to assuage the fears of Canada's
aboriginal peopies. stating that amendments to increase their
rights would flot be subject to the provisions of the bill, but
amendments to diminish their rights would be caught by the
provisions of the bill. He referred to it as a "durable
enhancement*' of the amending process. Alas. he was the first
and also the hast witness to give the bill more than modest
support.
Under questioning by our colleague Senator Murray, it became
clear that Minister Rock was unsure as to which parts of the
Constitution would be aftected by this overhay of the amending
formula. Senator Rivest wanted to know who gives the consent
from the province required under subsection (1) of clause I of
the bill. Would it be the govemrment. the people, the Legisiative
Assembly or some other group? This bill seemed to create
uncertainty.
Our coileague Senator St. Germain wanted to know how it was
that British Columbia. when the bill was first introduced. was not
a region and then. ho and behohd. it became a region.
Taking Minister Rock at his word that this bill is transitorx.
that this bihl s a bridge to coniprehensive relorni in the future,
Senator Meig-heni SU2ggested that a sunset clause he added. SIcIIi a

February 1, 1996

February 1, 1996

SENATE DEBATES

SENATh DEBATES

2561

2561

clause would kill the bill around the time of the next
constitutional conference which is mandated for 1997. Mr. Rock
did not like this idea. He told us not to "oversell" 1997, for it was
just a way station on the road to constitutional redevelopment.

Quebec a veto over any future constitutional change which
affects it. Second, does the bill advance the state of
federal-provincial relations or, if you like, the cause of national
unity in our country?

Honourable senators, it also became apparent that this bill
created a higher approval hurdle for the proposed constitutional
amendments than we have at present. The test of 7 provinces and
50 per cent of the population becomes, under this bill, a test of
7 provinces and 94 per cent of the population.

In order to answer the first question, one must look carefully at
the bill. Close examination reveals the following problems which
directly affect its usefulness as a veto for Quebec. First, the bill
does not confer any special powers on the Province of Quebec. It
fetters the ability of ministers of the Crown to introduce
constitutional amendments in Parliament unless the amendments
meet the tests of the bill.

I must admit that, after our Monday moming session with the
minister and his officials, I personally came away with real
questions about the potential effect of this bill on future
constitutional change in our country. The drafting regarding how
provincial consent should be given left many questions in my
mind. I was concerned about the bill's effect on Canada as a
whole. I was especially concerned about the effect of the bill on
Quebec because it does not do what the Prime Minister said it
would do, namely, it does not really give a veto to Quebec.
Our colleague Senator MacEachen said it better than any of
the witnesses when he tried to explain the limited application of
this bill. He said:
I think that it is absolutely necessary to underline again
that this limitation - namely, the amending formula contained in Bill C-110

-

- is on the executive, not on the Parliament of Canada.
It is a regulation of ministerial behaviour. That is all it is.
It does not confer anything on anyone. It guides ministerial
behaviour, period.
I agreed with Senator MacEachen in that.
Witnesses who followed the minister - witnesses from the
academic community, ministers of the Crown from British
Columbia, the two territorial ministers and the aboriginal
representatives - raised even more problems with the bill.
My colleagues on the committee and myself were then at that
point where we had to weigh the evidence and assess our
individual analyses of the bill. In order to draw appropriate
conclusions as to the efficacy of this bill, certain tests, it seemed
to me, had to be devised. For me, these tests would provide the
scale against which we would measure the problems created by
the bill as reported by the witnesses and as found during my own
study.
I felt two tests would be useful: First, does this bill indeed
fulfil the promise made by the Prime Minister of Canada during
the referendum campaign?
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, I am sorry to
interrupt but the honourable senator's 15-minute period is up. Is
leave granted for Honourable Senator Kinsella to continue?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Senator Kinsella: The first test would be whether the bill
fulfils the promise made by the Prime Minister, namely. to give

Second, we recognize that any back-bencher, or indeed any
honourable member of this house, can still introduce a
constitutional amendment which could adversely affect Quebec's
powers or its place in the federation.
Third, the bill will make more difficult the attainment of any
future constitutional change which could increase the power of
Quebec because such a change would be subject to regional veto.
Fourth, there may be a tendency in the rest of Canada to
conclude that, with a resolution dealing with distinct society and
with this bill, the issues which gave rise to the close vote in the
October 30 referendum have been finally addressed and satisfied.
Fifth, this bill is not a constitutional amendment. It is simply
an ordinary statute of the federal Parliament and is subject to
change by Parliament.
Senator Berntson: A sham.
Senator Kinsella: In my opinion, Bill C-110 is very much less
than an adequate response to the commitment made by the Prime
Minister of our country. It does not confer on Quebec a
constitutionally entrenched veto over constitutional change
which directly affects that great province.
My second test in analyzing the evidence on the bill deals with
the potential effects this bill may have on federal-provincial
relations and on national unity.
In that regard, the Honourable Andrew Petter, Chair of the
British Columbia government committee on national unity,
believed the bill was less than helpful because it established four
classes of provinces. He stated:
This hierarchy of provinces is inherently divisive and
ultimately will undermine, not strengthen, the commitment
to national unity.

Professor Doug Schmeiser of the University of Saskatchewan,
a long-time constitutional negotiator, endorsed Minister Petter's
views even though Schmeiser only saw two classes of provinces
- those with a veto and those without a veto. Whether or not
one believes in the concept of equality of the provinces, in order
to change the amending formula one needs the approval of all of
the provinces and of the federal Parliament. However, because of
opposition to this bill in British Columbia and Quebec, the bill
not only fails that test but fails its own test as well. which is more
of a paradox.

Further, the bill does not establish the means whereby consent
is to be given by the provinces. This is a very serious matter and
the subject of one of the three amendments before you. This
potentially divisive and inherently confusing matter needs to be
addressed.
Honourable senators, the bill leaves it to the federal
government to determine when consent bas been demonstrated.
This leaves the federal government potentially in the position
where it can disregard the word of the duly elected government,
or go over its head and hold a referendum in a given province.
Such an approach offends the principle of federalism as
expressed in the current Constitution.
The bill may also be unconstitutional. However, I will leave
the in-depth analysis of that topic to others during this debate.
Suffice it to say that some of our witnesses, for example,
Professors André Tremblay of the University of Montreal and
Professor Schmeiser, both held the categorical view that the bill
was in difficulty in that regard.
Some argued that it is an attempt to amend the Constitution
without following the rules set down in the Constitution. It is a
bill which contradicts the constitutional amending formula and
could be declared to be inconsistent with the provisions of the
Constitution and of no force and effect, as provided in section 52
of the Constitution Act, 1982.
I also believe that the method by which this bill was devised is
less than helpful to Canadian unity. The lack of consultation by
the federal government with those involved in the process must
stop. Ignoring those who are intimately involved in the
constitutional process does not foster support for even
quasi-constitutional initiatives such as this one.
Although the government claims that this measure is a
temporary one and can be repealed when a new formula is
devised, one witness, the Dean of the Faculty of Law at Queen's
University, Professor John Whyte, was of a different view. He
advised us that this will be a permanent change to the
Constitution. He argued that that is because no province, once
given a veto, will want to give it up. He felt that even though the
bill only deals with ministers of the Crown. because of party
discipline it will have a paralyzing effect on all government
members. It will also have a paralyzing effect on future changes
to the Constitution.
As Gordon Gibson of British Columbia pointed out,
Constitutions should be hard to change. very bard: but change
should not be impossible.
I believe that, on balance, honourable senators. having heard
all of the evidence, this bill does very little to advance the cause
of national unity. However. in trying to assess the realpolitik of
our times, and desiring to be constructive in opposition. we
should bear in mind the words of another distinguished witness
who was extrenely helpful to the committee, Mr. Claude Ryan.
who stated:

[ Senator Kinselli 1

[Translation]
Following your kind invitation. I must first state clearly
whether I support or reject Bill C-1 10. I strongly
emphasized that this legislative measure must be of a
transitory and temporary nature Provided that the ambiguity concerning the conditions
related to provincial consent is eliminated, the answer to
that question must be in the affirmative.
[En glish]
With respect to the three amendrments that have been brought
before this chamber, in seriousness, and as a result of careful
study, and from a desire to be supportive and helpful, we believe
the bill. as a temporary measure. is salvageable, but only with the
three amendments that we have brought forward.
First, we propose a sunset clause. The bill has been
represented by the governrment as temporary. They say it is only
temporary, that it is a bridge to a new and more complete answer
to national unity that will be brought in by the federal
government. Some of us are sceptical; I. by nature, am not.
However, I am cautious and I wish to be prudent.
As recently as last week, the government changed the minister
in charge of intergovernmental affairs. There is a constitutional
conference scheduled for next year. If this bill is designed to be a
temporary measure, then let us ensure that it becomes a
temporary measure by ordering its demise through a sunset
clause. Let us keep the government's feet to the fire. so that the
objective and the promise made by the Prime Minister of Canada
to the people of Quebec. that there would be a constitutional
amendment to ensure that no changes would occur affecting the
province of Quebec without that province's consent, will be
realistically and seriously acted upon. This bill does not do that.
To allow this bill to stand without a sunset clause would be, in
the view of some, to perpetuate a myth. The myth is that there is
a constitutional veto at the disposai of these provinces and
regions. There is no constitutional amendment; just a policy
supported by a statute of a government. all of which is temporary
in and of itself.
Second, honourable senators, in a federation, consent to
constitutional change should ultimately come from the elected
representatives of the people. This is the way in which the 1982
constitutional amending formula is written. It would not be
constructive to give the federal government the power under this
bill to bypass the provincial legislatures when determining the
meaning of consent. Mr. Ryan and Mr. Johnson, strong
federalists in the province of Quebec, have been outspoken in
this regard.
Therefore, your committee bas proposed an amendment
establishing that consent must come from a provincial
legislature. If a particular province wishes to hold a referendum,
it may. Some provinces like to operate this way. and it should be
their choice. but ai least let us assure the representatives of the
people in the provinces that they have the final word in these
miatters.

Fehruarv 1, 1996
February

1

1996

SENATE DEBATES

Finally, honourable senators. the committee heard great
concerns raised by the aboriginal peoples of Canada regarding
the potential effect that this bill may have on future constitutional
amendments affecting them.
The government has told them that this bill does not
negatively affect the aboriginal interests and the process. If that
is the case, then there should be no reason to oppose an
amendment which puts into effect this guarantee.
Before I close, honourable senators, I do want to mention a
matter that was raised at our meeting yesterday by our colleague
the Honourable Senator Beaudoin, in which he seemed to have
received the support from all members of the committee. Senator
Beaudoin proposed that the Senate establish a special committee
to deal with matters affecting Canadian unity. That was the
subject of the notice of motion which Senator Beaudoin raised
earlier this day.
As mandated by the Constitution, a constitutional conference
will be held in 1997. It is felt that the Senate is ideally placed to
study these issues and to report its findings and make
recommendations to Parliament, to the government, and to
Canadians.
The Senate is populated by representatives of two major
political parties in our country - parties that share the high,
non-negotiable value of the future of Canada as a matter of
critical importance. The future of a united Canada is a must.
Senator Beaudoin's idea has merit. Perhaps we may hear the
views of other senators on this topic.
[Translation]

Hon. Pierre De Bané: Honourable senators, I welcome the
opportunity today to speak at the report stage of Bill C- 110. After
all the testimony heard during the past two weeks, I think it
would be appropriate to recall the context in which Bill C-110
was drafted. I say appropriate, because otherwise a number of
considerations, valid and legitimate though they may be in
several respects, are not altogether relevant to this debate and
may cause us to lose sight of the essence of this bill.

2563

On the evidence, the danger does not come from this
legislation but from the Parti Québécois government in power in
Quebec; nor do I subscribe to the rhetoric of those who argue that
this measure falls short of Quebec's traditional demands and
therefore should not be adopted. If we consider what is currently
feasible within the Canadian political context and the federal
government's desire to meet its commitments quickly and
tangibly, we cannot do otherwise but reject such arguments and
support this bill.
I listened carefully to witnesses who suggested amending the
bill. I also noted the motions to that effect that were tabled by
some of my colleagues. Nevertheless, my conclusion is that the
bill is valid and worthwhile in its present form.
I would like to come back to the four aspects that we discussed
most frequently in the Senate and which formed of the basis for
these motions. First, the constitutionality of the bill; second,
whether it would be desirable to introduce a non-derogation
clause to protect the rights of aboriginal peoples; third, the
procedure according to which a province would express its
consent; and fourth, whether it would be useful to have a sunset
clause.
A number of witnesses raised the subject of the
constitutionality of Bill C-I 10. In fact, this point was raised in
the questions put to the last witness heard by the committee,
Associate Deputy Minister of Justice Mary Dawson. Some
expressed reservations and even doubts, but most of the
constitutional experts heard before the committee who analyzed
various arguments that could be brought before the courts to
support the constitutionality of the bill concluded that such
arguments would outweigh any that would question the bill's
constitutionality. That was the opinion of Minister Allan Rock
who appeared at the beginning of the committee's proceedings,
and I quote:
[English]

The better view is that the legislation is within the
constitutional powers of Parliament and is valid as an
enactment.

As I pointed out during the debate on second reading,
Bill C-110 is intended as part of the federal government's
response to the commitments made by the Prime Minister when
the referendum on the independence of Quebec was held last
October. During the referendum campaign, the Prime Minister
committed himself to recognizing Quebec as a distinct society
within Canada and to preventing the adoption of any changes
affecting the province without the consent of Quebec.

Minister Rock gave three reasons to support his position. First,
Bill C- 110 does not interfere directly or indirectly with the
amending formula contained in the Constitution. The Houses of
Parliament remain free to perform their constitutional role in
relation to constitutional amendment, giving the federal consent
as the Constitution requires.

During consideration of Bill C- 110, we were offered a range of
views. There were those who supported the bill in its present
form, while others suggested changes or, and this was the view of
the majority, rejected the bill outright.

Second, Bill C-110 is an expression of Parliament's
unquestioned authority to establish conditions or procedural
requirements, in this case binding ministers of the Crown, in
well-defined circumstances and for sound policy reasons.

I must admit I was not convinced by the rationale behind
statements that passage of this bill would endanger the future of
federal-provincial relations and renewed federalism and, more
specifically, relations between the federal government and
Quebec.

Third, there is little support for the contention that the bill
abrogates some norm or convention of equality of the provinces.
The Constitution itself contains no such express principle, nor are
there sufficient grounds to suggest that a convention along these
lines has developed.

[Translation]

[En glish]

On Tuesday. we heard Mary Dawson, the Associate Deputy
Minister of Justice. She contended that the arguments put
forward by certain witnesses againsi the constitutionaiity of the
bill did flot hoid. She aiso said that she was saîistied the bill was
consistent with the Constitution. 1 therefore have no hesitation.
and 1 suggest you do iikewise. in accepting the opinion of the
Minister of Justice and the senior officiais of his departrnent. and
of most of the experts in constitutionai iaw who passed before us.

Arnendments to Bill C-i 10 were suggested by the aboriginai
representatives appearing before oiir cornmittee. One of the
arnendments caiied for the inclusion of a non-derogation clause
to ensure that the interests of aboriginai peopies are flot adverseiy
affected. The rnost convincing explanation for why a
non-derogation clause in favour of Canada's aboniginai people is
not necessary in order to preserve fiexibiiity in arnending the
Constitution to add to aboriginai rights was offered by Ms Mary
Dawson, Associate Deputy Minister of Justice.

1 can. in fact, quote the conversation between Senator Murray
and Ms Dawson, the Associate Deputy Minister of' Justice, at
Tuesday*s heaning.
[En glish]
Senator Murray: I have severai specific questions. The
first bas to do with the constitutionaiity of the bill. If wouid
be very dificuit for me to summarize the arguments which
have been made by severai witnesses to the effect that it is
unconstitutionai, because they corne at it frorn different
angles. You are aware of the arguments which have been
made as to its constitutionaiity. Do you sec any menit in the
arguments at ail?
Ms Dawson: No, 1 think this bill is constitutional. Much
discussion can be had on that question, but 1 arn satisfied
that the bill is constitutionai.
Senator Murray: Stephen Scott testified that in his
opinion this bill is an arnendrnent 10 the Constitution of
Canada under section 44. Do you agree with that statement
and does it rnake any difference?
Ms Dawson: I wiil answer the second part of the question
first. 1 do flot think it makes any difference so 1 have not
worried about it very rnuch. Any amendment made under
section 44 is made by an act of Parliament and this is what
we are now deaiing with. so if it were a section 44
amendrnent, we are doing it the right way.
1 wouid flot have immediateiy characterized it as a
section 44. but 1 ar nfot sure where the boundaries are and 1
did not worry about it in this context. It couid be.
Senator Murray: And it would flot make any difference?
Ms Dawson: 1 cannot sec what difference it wouid make.
[Translation]
The impact of that bill on aboriginai peopies was discussed by
the officiai opposition.
A number of aboriginai groups camne betore the conirittee.
We spent a day discussing this issue at iength with thern. In tact.
the Minister of Justice specificaiiv aiiuded Io it in his staternent.

1Senalor

De Bané 1

As Ms Dawson testified, Bill C-i1h0 does flot cover
arnendrnents that derogate frorn the powers. rights and priviieges
of a province which are sub.ject to the 7-50 arnending formula.
Since any arnendment 10 add to aboriginai rights. depending on
the wording. couid entaii taking away from provincial rights,
such arnendrnents wouid not corne within the scope of the bill
and wouid flot be sub.lect to the regionai vetoes.
On the other hand. the bill wouid decrease the iikeiihood of an
amendrnent being introduced that wouid take away frorn existing
aboriginai rights. because such an amendrnent wouid not be one
in which a province rnay exercise a veto under sections 4h or 43,
or may express its dissent under section 38(3) of the Constitution
Act of 1982, and therefore wouid not faii within the exceptions
of the bill.
The federai govemment wouid have 10 have the support of the
l'ive regions of Canada before introducing a constitutionai
amendrnent Io the detrirnent of' aboriginai rights.
[Translation

I

Last Tuesday, during Ms Dawson's testirnuny betore the
cornrittee. there was an interesting exchange between Senator
Carstairs. Senator Murray and Ms Dawson on this issue. t invite
the honourabie senators to read the transcript of' that exchange
between the two senators and Ms Dawson.
The other issue raised by the officiai opposition is the
expression of consent by the provinces. The question is whether
provincial consent can be given oniy by a hegisiative assernbiy, as
is the case under the amending formnula provided in the
Constitution Act of 1982. or if. as suggested by the rather vague
wording of Bill C-i h0. that provincial consent can be obtained
through other rneans.
Severai witnesses expressed their view on that issue. Some
asked that the conditions rehating to consent be clarified. When
asked whether those who drafted the bill had deiiberateiy chosen
arnbiguous terms. the Minister of Justice and the senior officiais
of his departrnent said that the intention had been to use a
flexible wording.
Whiie there is no doubt that a province wiii be able to express
itseif through its institutions. narnehy its government and
egishative assembhy. in very rare instances. this tlexible wording
cud aihuw the fedleral government 10 seek the consent of a
province lhruugh other means. inchuding a public consul' lion by
wav of a relerendurn. Let Us nul torget that whihe our' c-tintry is
a federation. it is Iirst and furcist a dernucrac\.

February 1, 1996

February 1, 1996

SENATE DEBATES

SENATE DEBATES

Sovereignty is in the hands of the people. Sure, we are a
federation. but we are first of ail a democracy and we cannot
blame the government for going directly to the people, under
exceptional circumstances, so as to get their point of view and
solve a deadlock between the Canadian government and a
provincial government.
Finally, on the question of a "sunset clause," several witnesses
spoke of such a clause to be included in the legislation, by virtue
of which the act would cease to be in effect at a specific date
Others indicated their receptiveness to that idea, so much so that
we have a proposed amendment which would abrogate the
legislation on December 31, 1997. First of al], let me state that a
sunset clause is not in the least necessary for the bill to be
properly applied. Since this is a standard bill, I would add that
Parliament has ail of the authority available to it to amend or
abrogate the legislation whenever it sees fit.
More fundamentally, a sunset clause whereby the legislation
would be in effect only until the end of December, 1997 might
mean that, if there is no further legislative initiative on the part of
the federal government The Hon. the Speaker: I am sorry to interrupt you, Senator
De Bané, but your fifteen minutes are up.
Does Senator De Bané have permission to continue,
honourable senators?

2565

2565

referendum. It is also an important element of the federal
government's overall strategy to resolve the country's
constitutional difficulties in the near future, with the help and the
cooperation of the provinces, we hope. I am satisfied that the bill
is consistent with the Constitution, that it in no way takes away
from the rights of the native peoples and that it will be effective
without a sunset clause or clarification of the terms of provincial
consent. For this reason, honourable senators, I ask you not to
support the amendments proposed and to pass the bill in its
present form.
I would like to say a few words as the senator for Quebec in
this house. A look at the constitutional reform of 1982 obviously
reveals many improvements, which were included precisely to
respond to the claims French Canada had made since 1867. They
cover the inclusion of both languages in the Constitution; the
matter of French schools across Canada; equalization payments;
devolution to the provinces in the area of natural resources; the
fundamental indissociable rights of human dignity that no
government should take away from its citizens; and the rights of
speech, conscience and assembly and also language rights; aIl
these enshrined in the Canadian Constitution.
No doubt the failure of the 1982 legislation lay in the fact that
its amending formula deprived Quebec of certain protective
measures. This is what this legislation undertakes. This,
therefore, honourable senators, is why I ask you to pass this bill
without amendment.

Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Senator De Bané: AIl this idea of a sunset clause would do
would be to give Quebec a veto that would be taken away in
December 1997.
In this atmosphere of uncertainty surrounding the sunset
clause, one of our witnesses, Mr. Claude Ryan, reminded
committee members of the old adage "A bird in the hand is
worth two in the bush."
Let us therefore keep the veto within this legislation in effect,
so long as the right of veto bas not been entrenched in the
Constitution. We already have the deadline of 1997 in the
Constitution and ail of the evidence points to the procedures for
constitutional amendment being reviewed at that time. I believe
it is preferable to leave the decision-makers with a certain
leeway, given the nature of the ups and downs of politics, and we
have leamed from experience, I think, that government gets the
best results when there is no pre-determined deadline.
In fact, in purely practical terms, we must not rule out the
possibility that, after the 1997 conference and the elections
whose outcome we cannot predict with certainty, it will not be a
suitable time for Parliament to pass legislation that would keep
the veto powers in effect in order to offset the impact of the
proposed clause.
For aIl these reasons, I oppose introducing a sunset clause into
Bill C-110.
In closing, this bill is effective and realistic, and it honours the
commitments made by the Prime Minister during the last

Hon. Jean-Claude Rivest: Honourable senators, given the
importance and significance of Bill C- 110 with regard to national
unity, I would like to talk to you briefly on this major piece of
legislation, which, in my view, hardly measures up to the basic
problem facing this country, namely the troubling issue of
national unity.
In introducing this bill, to refer to commitments presumably
made by the honourable Prime Minister of Canada during the
referendum campaign, be it regarding distinct society or a
Quebec veto, is to forget something much more important in real
life and in dealing in practical terms with the situation, and that is
the fact that, for many years now, the message that Quebec sent
to Canada as a whole, and which was taken up by the federalist
side in the referendum debate, is not so much to recognize the
existence of a distinct society per se, or to give Quebec veto
power over constitutional amendments. In any case, these
initiatives appear to be only a way to correct the tragic mistake
made by a segment of the Canadian public opinion in rejecting
the Meech Lake Accord, since these two notions were formally
recognized, not only politically but also constitutionally.
As we know, and for obvious reasons, some people in Canada
opposed the conclusion and ratification of the Meech Lake
Accord. Both measures initiated by the honourable Prime
Minister seem to have been intended as some kind of mild
remedy to the tragic mistake made at that time. Ever since the
failure of Meech, national unity has become a source of
increasing concern. expressed in more and more tragic terms,
when we think about the impact it will have not only in Quebec
but also across Canada.

What was promised, what Quebecers and ail Canadians saw
when they rallied in Montreal to show their love for Quebec and
their commitment to keeping this country united, was that the
Canadian govemment was expected to come up with a real plan
to change the nature, configuration and evolution of this country.
As mentioned by Senator Kinsella and pointed out by others to
the committee, a motion to recognize Quebec's distinct society
and Bill C- 110, which makes the federal veto rest not on a
constitutional basis at aIl but rather on a purely statutory basis,
were introduced in Parliament as a result.
This bill, of course, is characterized by this govemment's total
lack of initiative in light of the seriousness of the problem we
must face. In fact. in realpolitik terms, according to a recent poll
conducted in Quebec, far from weakening after the passing of a
distinct society motion or the introduction of Bill C-110,
Quebecers' support for sovereignty just passed the 50 per cent
mark and reached this is approximate, since this is only a
poll -

52 per cent.

Honourable senators, if the Canadian government thinks that
these two specific measures meet the expectations of the Quebec
people and the desire for change expressed not only by those
Quebecers who voted Yes but also by a very large proportion of
those who voted No, it is sadly mistaken. Quebec's political
reality clearly shows that the initiatives taken so far by the
Canadian govemment are totally artificial and inadequate.
During the proceedings of the committee studying Bill C-110,
the Minister of Justice, to whom this situation was pointed out,
said that we should not look at Bill C- 110 separately but as part
of an overall plan that, unfortunately, has not yet been disclosed
to the House of Commons, the Senate and the Canadian people.
We are being told today that cabinet ministers are meeting to
consider such a plan. How can members of the House of
Commons and honourable senators appreciate the relative merits
of Bill C-110 as part of an overall plan for change of which we
have not been informed? Clearly, in addressing the problem of
national unity, the Canadian government is resorting to
improvisation, which we, as parliamentarians, feel it is extremely
important to denounce.
This kind of improvisation in today's serious circumstances
threatens to compromise the future of our country, Canada. The
govemment must bear a very great responsibility in this.
In particular, Bill C-110 was described as a purely statutory
measure that had absolutely nothing to do with the constitutional
guarantees that Quebec and other regions of Canada have always
demanded to protect the rights and privileges of the member
states of the federation, the provinces. This first, obvious
limitation of Bill C-1 10 shows just how wide the gap is between
the measure being applied and the situation to be corrected.
Second, some experts heard by the committee also said
that this measure may be unconstitutional in that it sets a new
process for exercising the federal veto power by subjecting it to
regional vetoes.

j Senaior Rivest

]

Is that or is that not an indirect amendment to the current
amending formula, as provided in the Constitution Act? There
are doubts as to whether such a bill would hold up to a court
challenge. How can the Senate and the House of Commons pass
a bill that may not stand up to scrutiny. under the Constitution?
What would the veto granted to British Columbia, Ontario or
Quebec mean if, when exercised, its constitutionality could be
challenged by someone in Canada?
The primary object of a veto is to be absolutely sound from a
constitutional point of view. However, a doubt exists. Some
claim, as Senator De Bané suggested, that such a process would
be constitutional. Other experts have told us that it would be
unconstitutional. From a legal point of view, the only criterion
that applies when a veto is either being contemplated or is
actually given, is its soundness. We do not have that sense. as
regards Bill C- 110.
How can we associate ourselves with such a measure? Another
extremely important point raised is that the provision granting
such a veto to Quebec, Ontario and British Columbia does not
specify whether that veto is to be exercised by the people or by
the government of these provinces, and of the prairie and
maritime provinces, based on the proportions set in the bill.
Senator De Bané tells us that the wording is purposely vague:
that, ultimately. sovereignty must lie in the hands of the people,
and that we might even have a public consultation process when
it comes to amending the Constitution.
This is ail very well in theory, but we must not forget that we
have a federal system in Canada. The division of sovereignty
between the federal and provincial governments is such that
where constitutional change is concerned - according to our
current amending formula - this constitutional responsibility
has been given to our federal and provincial institutions. In other
words, veto rights and the right to make amendments are
prerogatives of the House of Commons or the provincial
legislatures.
If some provinces, or even the Canadian government, decide
to involve the general public in this process, they are free to do
so. In a federal system, however what right does the Canadian
government have to decide unilaterally, since it shares
sovereignty with the provinces, that in a given province not the
legislative assembly but the people will decide? This
incongruous aspect of the bill was, in fact, condemned by
Mr. Ryan.
Some provinces, especially British Columbia, have already
decided that in constitutional matters, as is their prerogative, a
referendum will be held to authorize their legislative assembly to
exercise its constitutional amending powers. This is entirely in
accordance with the spirit and the very nature of our federal
system. British Columbia will decide that its citizens will
authorize their legislative assembly to act. It is not up to the
Canadian govemment to decide how each entity of the federation
will exercise its legislative power to amend the Constitution.
That is the nature of the federal system.

February 1, 1996

February I. 1996

SENATE DEBATES
SENATE DEBATES

The proposal set forth in Bill C-110 reflects a concept of how
our federal system works that has caused so many problems,
especially in Quebec. This concept of federalism is almost like
trusteeship federalism. The Canadian government knows what is
best for all member states of the federation!

We can see, honourable senators, regarding these two criteria,
how pathetic the measures contained in Bill C- 110 are. Its
limitations and constraints were highlighted by, among others,
Senator Kinsella, in regard to the nature of the problem facing
Canada and Quebec in maintaining national unity.

That is not what a federal system is about. The division of
sovereignty between the central govemment and the provincial
governments must take precedence. In their respective
jurisdictions, the provincial govemments and federal govemment
are fully sovereign. That is how a federal system works.
Basically, we must go back to that concept, because that is how it
was when Canada began. That is what we must reinstate.

To ask us, as Quebecers, to associate ourselves with this
initiative, although it is not because the bill is unjust and totally
bad in itself, is to send a message to all Canadians - who are
showing some signs of nervousness in this matter - that could
be very disastrous for the future.

Honourable senators, people often ask: "What does Quebec
want in constitutional matters?" Basically, this is what Quebecers
want the federal government and Canada, as a whole, to respect
conceming the operation of our federal system.
Quebecers will make a decision on the future of our country
based on three principles. First, Quebec will ask to be named and
acknowledged as a part of this country.
Of course, the distinct society we proposed in the Meech Lake
Accord met this expectation. If people say that Quebec plays a
major and probably much too great a role in the evolution of this
country, why not simply recognize it in the Constitution once and
for all? It is a question of acknowledging the contribution of the
people of Quebec to the Canadian identity per se.
If any region of Canada were to separate from the rest of the
country, Canada would suffer a great loss. If Quebec leaves the
Canadian federation, to a large extent this will be the end of one
of the main features of this country: that is its linguistic and
cultural duality. Quebec's contribution is unique and exceptional
not only in linguistic terms but also because Quebec's linguistic
reality affects Canadian culture as a whole. When our artists, our
authors, write a novel or produce a play in French, they do so not
in the French or Swiss style but in the Quebec and Canadian
style. Their contribution to this country is unique, and Quebecers
want this to be recognized.
Second - and there is a direct connection here - this country
was created to give a govemment to those who were then called
"Canadiens," in other words to French Canadians. Quebecers
want a real government that would be respected and never
questioned. They want the powers of the Quebec National
Assembly to be enshrined in the Constitution. However,
constitutional guarantees are not enough.
We want the powers of our National Assembly to be secure not all the powers, because we share some with the Parliament of
Canada. The Canadian government serves Quebec well. We want
our powers to be politically secure. We will have to examine how
the federal spending power is exercised in terms of the
development of Canadian standards to ensure that the National
Assembly's political powers are not modified. We want the
powers of our National Assembly to be secure without
completely changing the structure and composition of this
country.

By passing, in the Parliament of Canada, a resolution on the
distinct society and a bill on a statutory veto for Quebec, the
government is sending the message that Quebec's demands and
concerns have been met.
What room to manoeuvre will federalists in Quebec, who
believe in the future of this country, have to try to convince
everyone in Quebec and Canada that there are a lot more
important things to do to restore our country's true meaning and
its cohesiveness, which will enable Quebec, Canada and all the
other regions of Canada to cope with the exceptional challenge
facing us as a country and entity? That is the urgent message I
wish to pass on to the Canadian government: to do a lot more
responsible things which help build the country rather than
simply suggesting secondary measures, not to say stalling tactics,
which contain, in their very wording, flaws that have been
clearly highlighted by the proposed amendments.
[English]

Hon. Sharon Carstairs: Honourable senators, we are today,
as we will be tomorrow, debating an important bill. It sets a tone.
As we have heard from Senator Rivest, it is not enough, and
much more needs to be done. However, what we have to deal
with today is the bill itself. We have to understand its
background, from whence it came, and understand where it will
lead us in the future.
I should like all honourable senators to think back to October
of 1995 when the early days of the referendum campaign seemed
to be going well for the federalist side. However, an event
occurred which none of us expected: There was a change of
leadership on the other side. That change necessitated a need to
change the strategy of the No side.
As a result, the Prime Minister gave a speech in which he
made some promises to the people of the province of Quebec.
Essentially, he indicated three things: He said that, in so far as it
was possible for him to act, Quebec would be recognized as a
distinct society. He said that, in so far as it was possible for him
to act, Quebec would be given a veto. He also said that changes
would be made in the distribution of powers.
I say "how" he could act because, as honourable senators
know, prime ministers cannot act alone on the constitutional file.
In order to send a signal quickly, because a signal was required.
the Prime Minister had to do certain things over which he had

some control. I suggest that is why he proposed the resolution
which he did in the House of Commons. He understood that.
indeed, he could not get it through this chamber without the
support of senators. It was senators who said that they wanted to
debate that resolution in this chamber. It was then brought into
this chamber, where it was passed.
Bill C-110, a very simple bill, was then introduced. The bill
states that no minister of the Crown will introduce in the House
of Commons any amendment to the Constitution which does not
have the approval of Quebec, British Columbia, Ontario, and at
least two provinces in the Atlantic and two in the prairies.
The Minister of Human Resources Development at the time.
the Honourable Lloyd Axworthy, then introduced Bill C-1 I1into
the House of Commons. which bill changed the way in which
manpower training would be controlled by the federal
government.
Were these three measures adequate? No. Were they perfect?
No. Were they inclusive enough? No. However, they were a
beginning, a start.
At the outset, I want to clearly state how much I appreciate the
debate and the interchanges we have had over the last two weeks.
The Senate has a different and unique way of debating issues. In
my view, it is one that is most welcome.

We heard at first,
unconstitutional. We
clearly, we cannot
unconstitutional if we

for example, from some that the bill is
must deal with that aspect first because.
pass a bill in this chamber that is
know it to be such.

Honourable senators. there was certainly some constitutional
opinion that Bill C- 110 is unconstitutional, but the balance of
opinion was clearly that it is a constitutional piece of legislation.
Perhaps the most interesting exchange for me came from the
representative of the province of British Columbia. I thank
Mr. Petter for attending because he was the only one from the
provinces who did. We had representatives from the territories.
but representatives of other provincial governments, although
invited, chose not to attend.
Mr. Petter, of course, argued that Bill C- 110 is unconstitutional
because it puts a layer on top of the present constitutional
amending formula. I was interested in that opinion because I
knew of the referenda legislation in the province of British
Columbia that prohibits the government of British Columbia
from introducing in the British Columbia legislature a
constitutional amendment that has not been earlier submitted to a
referendum. If the votes in that referendum are 50 per cent plus
one opposed. the provincial government may not then introduce
the amendment in the British Columbia legislature. In my view,
that is far more of a layering of the constitutional process than
that proposed in Bill C- 110. Mr. Petter, of course. argued that that
was not unconstitutional, but that what Bill C- 110 will do is
unconstitutional.
We then heard from Andrew Heard of Simon Fraser
University. who was remarkably consistent. I admired hi m fior

I Senator Caistairs

1

that. and said so. He thought both approaches were
unconstitutional. That is at least a fair argument to make because
if one is true. then certainly the other is true. The balance of the
legal opinion we received on this issue was that we are dealing
with a piece of legislation that is constitutional.
Honourable senators, today we are dealing specitically with a
report submitted by the committee. a report on division which
recommends amendments. Do these amendments give the
federalists in the province of Quebec a greater comfort level? I
suggest that they do not, because anything seeking to amend this
legislation will just make the separatists in the province of
Quebec chortde. They already believe the bill to be wrong, and
claim that it does not mean anything. They have said that. They
reject it outright. Can you imagine what fun they will have over
this particular legislation if we now attempt to amend it, even
though they rejected it in the first instance'?
We heard from many during our committee sessions that this
bill will make the amendment process of our constitution just
that much more difficult. I agree. I think Senator Murray and I.
having in this case a unique common mind, prefer a situation in
which just Quebec is given a veto. However, I, for one, recognize
that that is not politically saleable in this country.
Yes, Bill C- 110 makes the amendment of our Constitution
much more difficult. By instituting regional vetoes in addition to
the rule of 7 out of 10 provinces representing 50 per cent of the
population, we have in fact gone from 7-10-50 to 7-10 and
92.2 per cent of the population. Yes, it is more difficult.
Honourable senators. I think there is a great fallacy abroad in
the land - that is, that we make constitutional amendments on
an everyday basis. Constitutional amendments are rare; they do
not happen often.
Having spent the vast majority of my life as a history teacher,
I asked my researcher to take a look at the American Constitution
and to tell me exactly how many amendments there had been in
the 200-year history of that country, and what impact they have
had. It turns out that there have been 27 amendments to the
American Constitution since 1783, 16 of which took place in the
last century. There have been l1 in this century, but really
only 10, because one introduced prohibition and the other
repealed prohibition. I found it fascinating that the last
amendment to the American Constitution was passed in 1992. It
dealt with congressional salaries. and it took 203 years to pass in
the United States.
Yes, honourable senators, Bill C-I 10 will make constitutional
amendment more difficult but, at the same time, I think it is
essential to recognize the Quebec veto. However, the reality in
Canadian society is that if one recognizes the Quebec veto. then
Ontario will demand a veto by virtue of the size of its population,
and, as we quickly learned, so too will British Columbia.
One specific amendment about which we heard a great deal
during our committee sessions is the so-called consensus issue.
How can a federal govemment determine whether the people of a
province support a particular amendment to the Constitution if
that determination is flot made hy way of a vote in a particular
provincial legislature? Let us not confuse Bi ll C- 110 with the

February 1S1
1996

SENATE DEBATES

amendment process to the Canadian Constitution. That
amendment process will still require every single provincial
legislature to pass such an amendment, or 7 out of 10 of them to
pass such an amendment. in order for that amendment to become
part of the constitutional law of Canada. Bill C- 110 says that the
federal government will not introduce an amendment into the
House of Commons. A minister of the Crown will not introduce
an amendment unless the government has ensured that there is
consensus.
Honourable senators, let us take a hypothetical situation and
assume that Alberta refuses to introduce an amendment into her
legislature. She absolutely refuses. She has 59 per cent of the
population of the prairie region; hence, without the support of
Alberta, the federal government cannot act. The amendment has
the support of Saskatchewan and Manitoba, but it does not have
the support of Alberta because Alberta's government will not
introduce the amendment into its legislature, nor will it abide by
its own legislation and act by way of a referendum.
Honourable senators, if the amendment proposed by the
opposition passes, it would absolutely tie the hands of the federal
government in that they could not consult with the people of
Alberta to see if a consensus existed. They could not introduce an
amendment in Alberta - Alberta would still have to do that but they could then introduce it in the House of Commons.
Therefore, in my opinion the amendment which the
Conservatives have suggested is meant to take away any
flexibility that the federal government might have under
Bill C- 110. I do not think that is a positive accomplishment.
The second amendment I wish to deal with is the one relating
to the sunset clause repealing the act on December 31, 1997. A
number of individuals proposed a sunset clause, but none of them
proposed that it would be December 31, 1997. John Whyte from
Queen's University suggested the year 2000; Patrick Monahan
said five years; Professor Meekison said five years. None of
those suggestions reflect the narrowness of the amendment that
has been proposed by the Conservatives in this chamber today.
Honourable senators, I must say that I do not like sunset
clauses because I think they create an unnecessary pressure.
From my experience in another role, I have learned that
provincial governments are averse to such pressure being
imposed upon them; it reduces their flexibility. They will not
take kindly to the idea that they must do something by
December 31, 1997. A conference must be held in April of 1997,
but it is highly unlikely that they will be able to reach a
consensus by the end of that conference and, if they did, many
legislatures in this country do not have a fall term. Unless they
call a special term, they will not necessarily be able to get that
legislation through.
I do not see the value of a sunset clause. Indeed, I accept
Claude Ryan's logic on this. A sunset clause is not a positive; it
is a negative. It will be considered a backward step because the
message it sends to the people of Quebec is that they can have a
veto for a year and a few months, but that we do not intend it to

2569

apply in the long term. I do not consider that to be an
achievement.
The issue which gave me the greatest difficulty and the
greatest concern was that concerning the aboriginal peoples. Will
their powers be diminished as a result of this legislation? Will
they be enhanced? Will they remain unchanged? We heard very
eloquently from our aboriginal leadership that, in their view, their
powers would be diminished. This bill would make it more
difficult for them to achieve a constitutional amendment which
would entrench the rights of self-government in the Canadian
Constitution. I personally believe those rights are already
entrenched, but we have never had a constitutional challenge nor
a response in that regard. I would thank this government for
acting as if those rights are entrenched.
Still the question exists. The aboriginal people argued that if
the requirement of 7-10-50 was changed to be, in essence,
7-10-92, it would be more difficult to entrench the rights of
self-government in the Canadian Constitution. I was most
interested in Ms Mary Dawson's testimony with respect to the
impact of this legislation on our aboriginal people. I was
particularly concerned about section 38(3) of the Canadian
Constitution.
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, I hesitate to
interrupt Senator Carstairs, but her 15-minute period is up. Is
leave granted that she may continue?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Senator Carstairs: Section 38(3) is the provision in the
amending formula which states that provinces can opt out if their
legislative powers or their propriety rights or the privileges of the
government of the province has been affected.
It is very difficult for me to believe that we could have any
rational aboriginal self-government that would not impact on the
propriety rights and the legislative powers of provinces. If it did
not impact, then there would be no new rights for our aboriginal
people. If there are no new rights for our aboriginal people, then
what is self-government all about?
Section 38(3) gives to every single province in this country the
right to opt out. Self-government will mean nothing if provinces
can opt out. No one argues that section 38(3) is changed by this
bill because that section requires unanimous consent. That
provision cannot be changed, and this bill has no effect upon it.
Sections 35 and 35(1) recognize aboriginal rights in the
present Constitution and guarantee that, if changes are made to
section 91.24, then constitutional conferences must be held, and
aboriginal people must be there. Those sections are not changed
by this bill.
This bill takes an almost-neutral position for aboriginal people.
On the one hand, there is a benefit because this bill will make it
more difficult to take powers away from our aboriginal people by
requiring a formula of 7-10-92.2 per cent. On the other hand, it
will be more difficult to give them more power. The balancing
effect, I would suggest. is a neutral one.

I cannot accept the amendments as proposed opposite. They
will weaken the bill. A strong signal must be given to Quebec
that the Prime Minister's commitments will be fulfilled in their
entirety. Then we can begin the new process of ensuring that
Quebec remains a part of our country.
[Translation]
Hon. Gérald-A. Beaudoin: Honourable senators, I would
like to comment on our amendments briefly. Senator Kinsella
has spelled out very clearly the reasons for our amendments on
the aboriginal issue, and on section 91.24 of the Constitution Act
1867, and on sections 25, 35 and 35.1 of the Constitution Act,
1982. I have nothing to add to his comments.
I would like to deal with the other two amendments, including
the one on the sunset clause. The French equivalent of that, in
commercial and international law, is "clause d'extinction" and
not "clause crépusculaire," a phrase I always had reservations
about.
Furthermore. I would like to talk briefly about the consent of
the provincial legislatures. Let us deal first with the sunset
clause. Should this bill we want to amend be passed, it would
necessarily be a temporary measure. In April 1997, the Prime
Minister of Canada has to meet with his provincial counterparts
to review the amending formula. He has an absolute obligation to
do so. It is imperative. The whole part of the Constitution Act,
1982 on the amending formula has to be reviewed.
I think Quebec is not adequately protected as far as
representation in the Senate and the creation of new provinces
are concerned, and a better protection of its representation in the
Supreme Court of Canada is in order. Quebec already enjoys a
fair amount of protection for its representation in the Supreme
Court, but legal experts have raised doubts about the protection
provided by section 41 of the Constitution Act, 1982.
I think we should already be preparing for that 1997
conference. It is not an easy task, because the amending formula
is always a very difficult issue in federal states. We should get
down to work as soon as possible.
Intellectuals and experts have already been discussing that for
a few weeks. They have been talking about a plan A and a
plan B. The first one concerns constitutional amendments, and
the second one deals with what has to be donc should Quebec
ever secede. People with a great deal of experience, like Gordon
Robertson, Keith Spicer and many others, have made outstanding
contributions to the debate and given us food for thought.
[En glish]
My opinion is that parliamentarians should be involved right
now, starting with honourable senators. I would like it if we put
the emphasis on plan A rather than on plan B. Although both
plans are important. I hope that plan B will never apply.
Therefore. with respect to the sunset clause, the pressure will be
on the first ministers. on parliamentarians and others to find the
solution. a constitutional one, not only a legislative one.

[ Senator Cars1airs |

[Translation]
Quebecers need to see that constitutional changes are possible.
We have seen that in the referendum we nearly lost. The distinct
society and the amending formula are the focal point of
constitutional change. I feel we must give Quebecers
constitutional protection in the areas they consider vital:
language. culture, civil law. the amending formula. Their place in
major Canadian institutions must also be assured.
The question of constitutionality was raised before our
committee. Personally, I have serious doubts about the
constitutionality of Bill C- 110. We have a constitutional formula
that is already complex. Added to it are a legislative formula, a
statutory formula, a statutory veto. I understand why the Prime
Minister and the govemment did so.
However, I have some doubts about the approach. and I am
absolutely sure that if the government changed its mind, if it
were to table a resolution. that action by the government would
be perfectly valid because, in any conflict between the
Constitution and Bill C-110, the Constitution would take
precedence. Section 52 of the Constitution Act, 1982 is very
clear on this.
There were mixed opinions on the constitutional issue among
the experts who appeared before us. The debate on
constitutionality was. however, in favour of the sunset clause we
have proposed. Let us find an amending formula that is
constitutional in nature and will satisfy Quebec and Canada as
soon as possible.
There has been much referendum talk in our country in recent
months, perhaps even years. It must be kept in mind that the
referendum is not part of the amending formula. A consultive
referendum may be worthwhile: I am not against that. However
when you start to mix referendums and amending formulas, in
some cases there may be a danger of failure, which we would do
well to avoid. Are we heading in the right direction by adding to
an already complex amending formula both provincial and
federal referendums? Here again, with the proposed
amendments, I feel this is acceptable.
Second, I should like to look at the matter of consent by the
provincial legislatures. Do you remember November 1981? It is
part of Canadian history. There are two interpretations, I know.
However. an important incident occurred.
Claude Ryan, who appeared before our committee, put
considerable emphasis on consent by the National Assembly of
Quebec and the legislative assemblies of the other provinces.
Daniel Johnson, who did not appear before our committee, but
who gave press conferences, put considerable emphasis on
consent by the legislative assemblies.
In my opinion, they are right. Ours is a federal and
parliamentary system. These are two basic criteria. Powers are
shared between two levels of government. Amendment powers in
our svstem, however, lie with the provincial legislative
assemblies and the two federal Houses.

Februarv 1. 1996
February

1

1996

SENATE DEBATES

I think they are quite right to insist on this second amendment.
Some will say: Yes, but the Australians have an excellent
referendum amendment formula.
I remember that, with the Pepin-Robarts commission, a
referendum amendment formula accepted in the country's four
main regions was proposed. It was not accepted. We came back
to our basic parliamentary system.
We must not forget that a referendum is always an option. The
federal and provincial governments can always hold a
referendum, provided it is simply advisory. I am beginning to
have strong doubts about certain referendums that prevent a
government or a provincial legislature from speaking if the
referendum is not positive.
The federal government can always hold a referendum if it
deems one appropriate. I consider Claude Ryan's argument to
have more respect for the federal system. I think that our
amendment, which requires the approval of the legislative
assembly, wins out over the government proposal.
In closing, I would like to say a few words about spending
power. There is no doubt in my mind that there must be
guidelines on federal spending. There is no way around it. There
is no doubt in my mind that we must change our Constitution in
cultural terms.
Quebec has a very specific role to play in this area. There are,
we must not forget, three basic elements to a federal system: the
division of powers, the interpretation given it - thus the
importance of the makeup of the Supreme Court - and the way
it is changed - the amending formula. This is the heart of
federalism.
If Quebec feels itself protected in the major central institutions
and in the amending formula, and if the Constitution recognizes
its distinct nature, it will not, in my opinion, leave Canada.
[English]

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, I believe an
agreement has been reached between the two sides that we will
adjourn from twelve o'clock until two o'clock. We will resume
from where we stand now in this matter.
I should like to advise you as well that I plan to have a
reception this afternoon in honour of our new senator, Senator
Maheu. It will be held in my chambers at five o'clock, or
immediately following the adjournment should it be later than
five o'clock. I would ask honourable senators to remind their
colleagues who are not here. It will therefore take place at
five o'clock if we have adjourned before then. If we adjourn after
five o'clock, it will be at the adjournment. I leave the Chair to
return at two o'clock.
The Senate adjourned during pleasure.
[Translation]

The sitting of the Senate was resumed.
Hon. Jean-Robert Gauthier: Honourable senators.
Bill C-I 10 before us today has certain political merits but no

constitutional pretentions. The bill is a statute of the Parliament
of Canada and can be repealed or amended as Parliament sees fit.
It is important to remember that only the House of Commons
bas an absolute veto in constitutional matters. By tabling
Bill C-I10, the govemment has decided to lend its veto to the
regions of this country, of which there are five, in the event of
proposals for constitutional change.
In effect, the federal govemment is putting in place a set of
criteria that will guide the future use of its own veto power. It is
a discipline the federal governrment imposes on itself by giving
Quebec, Ontario, British Columbia, the Atlantic provinces and
the prairies guarantees that no constitutional amendments will be
proposed without their consent in areas where the provinces have
no veto or the right to opt out. This veto applies to changes in
national institutions like the Senate, to the creation of new
provinces and to certain changes in the division of powers.
The Prime Minister made this political commitment at the end
of the referendum campaign, in response to the wishes of
Quebecers. It meant providing guarantees that, in the future, no
decision on constitutional change would be made without their
consent. We should recall that, since 1867, no major
constitutional changes have been made without the consent of the
provinces, including Quebec. The repatriation of the Constitution
in 1982 left considerable bitterness in its wake which the Prime
Minister is now trying to remove with Bill C-110.
Some have claimed that the bill does not constitute an
adequate response to the expectations of Quebecers. We would
like Quebec to support this initiative, but unfortunately, as you
know, the present government of Quebec is opposed to any
constitutional talks. Clearly, at this time the only way for the
federal government to honour its commitments quickly was to
table a bill guaranteeing Quebec its veto. This bill is a positive
step, and indicates that the federal government is open and
prepared to respond to the expectations of Quebecers.
For its part, the Conservative opposition put forward three
amendments, which are currently being debated at report stage.
The first amendment is aimed at defining provincial consent, the
second at exempting Native people and their rights from possible
enforcement of the act, and the third at including a sunset clause
that would invalidate the bill after December 31, 1997.
I must say that when Bill C-110 was tabled, I myself
considered the possibility of amending the bill to include a sunset
clause. I even asked the Law Clerk of the Senate to draft such an
amendment. However, after hearing the evidence, I concluded
that instead of improving the bill, such an amendment may
restrict and reduce its scope. Including a sunset clause would
send Quebec and the other provinces the wrong signal and make
them question the federal government's political will to honour
its commitments in the future. Should the next constitutional
conference preserve the status quo, Quebec and the other regions
would be back at square one without a veto.
I am surprised that the Conservative senator from Quebec
agreed to this amendment. especially since. on January 22.
Professor Benoît Pelletier. from the Faculty of Law of the
University of Ottawa, told the committee reviewing Bill C-110.
and I quote:

- I do not think it is necessary to include a sunset clause,
especially since, as Senator Rivest pointed out. the main
purpose of the bill is to offer some protection. In my
opinion. it would be somewhat inconsistent to boast about
the protection and then turn around and specify when it will
end.
On January 25, Professor Steven Scott of McGill University
expressed the same opinion, and I quote:
[En glish]
With a sunset clause attached. those who might otherwise
have some reassurance from it would say, "Well, what sort
of reassurance is it now with a sunset clause? It does not
even have the permanency of an ordinary act of
Parliament...."
... if I were sitting and making the legislation, I would
probably not add the sunset clause, on the grounds that. as it
is, it is sufficiently diluted not to create undue complications
for the constitutional process.
[Translation]
Those of us who have been involved in the constitutional
negotiations over these past 15 years know how difficult it is in
Canada to have constitutional amendments passed. By proposing
and accepting a sunset clause, the honourable senators of the
opposition are pinning ail their hopes on the next constitutional
conference without leaving themselves any way out in the event
that it fails.
How is the consent of the provinces to be read or received?
Our Conservative colleagues, who supported the said amendment
to exclude aboriginal peoples and aboriginal rights from the
operation of Bill C- 110, were of the opinion that the provinces'
consent should be limited to that of provincial legislatures.
On November 30, 1995, Justice Minister Allan Rock told the
House of Commons committee the following:
It will be up to the federal government to determine what
this phrase means every time a new situation arises.
Depending on the circumstances. the federal government
might interpret as consent, for example, an expression of
consent by the provincial government of the day, a
resolution of the legislative assembly or a direct expression
of the population's agreement through a referendum.
It is therefore obvious that, since it cannot predict the future.
the federal government saw fit to exercise caution by giving
itself some leeway. Everyone will agree, however, that it would
be political suicide for the federal government not to authorize a
constitutional amendment that bas been consented to by a
majority of the population of certain provinces.
In this respect, Benoît Pelletier, a law professor at Ottawa
University. theorized that:
Should the Parliament of Canada and the Government of
Canada feel that the government of the province in question

1SCImor (authier j

no longer bas the support of its population- in exercising
the veto that it bas and that it may use at its discretion. why
would Parliament not hold a referendum in an attempt. not
to break the deadlock - because, again, the legislative
assembly will always have the final say, the provincial
legislature will always have the final say in passing the
resolution it considers appropriate - but to impress upon
the government of the province in question that the course it
is taking is not the course its population wishes to take Holding a referendum is just one way of confirming
provincial consent because a province is not only a
government. not only a legislative assembly. but also a
population.

[English]
Concerning the question of the aboriginal peoples and the
amendment which is before us, it is an important one where
constitutional amendments are concerned, and aIl members of the
committee agreed on that point. The witnesses gave good
presentations with convincing, substantive arguments in support
of their positions.
As Senator Carstairs explained, all of us wanted to be fair and
just with our First Nations. Aboriginal leaders believe that
Bill C- 110 will impede or impair their justifiable aspirations to
full recognition of their rights.
The majority of those who appeared before the committee did
not accept the government's assurances that their rights under
sections 25 and 35 of the Constitution Act. 1982 and under
section 91.24 of the Constitution Act, 1867 were protected.
In her testimony on January 30, 1996. Ms Mary Dawson, the
Assistant Deputy Minister of Justice, made some reassuring
comments. When asked about the need for a non-derogation
clause which would ensure that aboriginal rights were not
adversely affected, she said:
It would be harder to take an aboriginal right away under
this bill than under the current situation. Taking away
aboriginal rights would fall under the 7-50 rule. It would not
fall under the exemptions in the bill because it would not
fall under sections 41, 43 or 38(3) of the Constitution. AIl I
was saying is that the bill would apply. Given that the bill
puts additional impediments in the way of changing the
Constitution, it would therefore make it more difficult to
take away aboriginal rights.
As to adding rights, Ms Dawson stated:
That is the converse of adding rights rather than taking them
away. I am suggesting that adding rights would, by and
large, be covered by section 38(3) and therefore would not
be in the ambit of the bill.
Evidently. there are political costs for adding these
amendnents. I certainly do not believe it is wise for the Senate to
take those risks. Let me explain.

February 1, 1996

Februarv 1, 1996

SENATE DEBATES

SENATE DEBATES

2573
2573

On the aboriginal non-derogation amendment, Stephen Scott, a
professor at McGill University. said the following:

proposed amendments to Bill C-110, an act respecting
constitutional amendments.

While that may be perfectly reasonable in one sense, it
would probably impair the saleability of the bill in another
respect because it would draw more attention to particular
constitutional amendments of that kind and suggest that we
will proceed with constitutional amendments dealing with
aboriginal matters whether or not Quebec likes it. That is
obviously the way the Bloc Québécois would present such
an amendment.

These amendments have been proposed by the special
committee struck by this chamber to consider this ill-considered
government initiative, which was hastily drafted to give some
substance to the Prime Minister's post-referendum promises to
Quebecers.

There is a general understanding that under the present 7-50
formula Quebec could be absent from the required seven
provinces, with 50 per cent of the population, and yet an
amendment dealing with aboriginal rights could be accepted. I do
not have to tell honourable senators how such an initiative would
play in Quebec. If that province were isolated from that
constitutional change, Bill C-I 10 unamended would prevent this.
Second, on the definition of "consent from the provinces" and
the amendment of designating the legislative assembly, it appears
to me that the government would lose its option to deal directly
with the government of a province or, alternatively, with the
people in a referendum which could gain the needed consent.
Third, concerning the sunset clause, some weeks ago I had the
idea that such a provision should be considered. However, I have
changed my mind. After hearing experts and after careful
consideration, I believe it would be political dynamite to adopt
such a clause, mainly because it increases the expectations for
the constitutional conference which must be called by 1997.
Some provinces would complain, I am sure, that they are being
forced into a corner. Pressed unduly, they could refuse to budge
on this issue. If the conference, which must be called by early
spring 1997, fails, I can assure you that Mr. Bouchard, the
Premier of Quebec, would not miss the occasion to say to
Quebecers after December 31, 1997, "Canada failed to agree on
a constitutional amendment; we in Quebec do not have a veto
anymore." I do not think we want that political flak. We do not
need such a situation. It would be counter-productive to national
unty.
In concluding, I wish to repeat what Senator Beaudoin said in
the committee. It may not be fair to do this, but I think he made
a good statement. He said:
You had better grab something that is on the table and at
least you will have something in your pocket. After that, if
you want something more, get innovative and try to find a
way, but at least you have the other.
Bill C- 110 is on the table. It may not be the perfect solution,
but it is the best guarantee the government can give at this time
until it has ail the provinces' support to solve the problem in a
more innovative and permanent way. I hope that this bill will be
accepted without amendments. The political risks are too high to
do otherwise.
Hon. Pat Carney: Honourable senators, I am speaking today
to urge you to support. in a spirit of constructive compromise. the

I listened carefully to the honourable senator who spoke before
me, the Honourable Senator Gauthier, but I cannot support his
logic, and I know that he will, in fairness, listen to mine.
The bill itself on which we have spent so much time is, as I
have said before in this chamber, a very modest bill. It is very
small in size. It consists of only two important clauses, one of
which contains the concept of regional vetoes and the second of
which contains a definition. If it is passed, this bill may become
an infamous piece of legislation, in spite of its modest size and
content. It is to that possibility that I want to address myself
today.
The difficulties and deticiencies inherent in this bill were well
presented, carefully and constructively, by the committee's
chairman. Senator Kinsella, earlier today. I will not repeat them
here, but I do urge honourable senators to consider them.
In summary, no one likes this bill. The only witness who
supported it without reservation was the Minister of Justice
himself. Even he stressed that Bill C-110 is transitory. He
described it in terms of being a "way station on the way to
constitutional reform." Instead, the bill could be a dead end to
necessary reform, because the provinces may be unwilling to
give up regional vetoes in return for more permanent
constructive measures.
To British Columbians, the regional veto is the most visible
feature of this bill. When it was first brought forward by the
Prime Minister, the bill referred only to four regions that would
exercise a veto: The Atlantic provinces, Quebec, Ontario, and
something called "the West."
Your Honour, since you are from the west, you will be aware
of the outcry that came from British Columbia on this issue. The
faxes went into overdrive, there was a spontaneous combustion
of concern, the Prime Minister's phones rang off the office walls,
Liberal MPs joined with Reform MPs and Conservative senators
in seeking redress. Eventually, the government revised the bill. In
the redraft, which involves only two clauses, British Columbia
was included as one of the regions.
This is an important recognition, and I want to acknowledge
that in discussing this bill. It acknowledges the "known fact" that
B.C. is, by ail tests of geography, history, attitude, demography,
and its increasing multicultural nature, a separate region, part of
the west but "the Pacific province."
However, this important gain masks the fact that the bill itself
is ineffectual. As B.C.'s constitutional minister, Andrew Petter,
pointed out to the committee. it does not meet its own test.
Simply put. if the measures were in place now, this bill could not
be passed.

One of our correspondents from British Columbia wrote me
and said very clearly that if this new, unofficial amending
formula were in place, the new measures would not survive the
vetoes being proposed. That is a deadly failure of this bill. We
are put into the position of being in a ridiculous dilemma. We are
asked to consider a bill to limit constitutional initiatives by
federal ministers which may, in fact, rule out successful federal
initiatives to effect constitutional change in the future.
Several witnesses pointed out that the bill tries to achieve
constitutional change through the back door by an act of
Parliament which the government cannot achieve through the
front door of successful constitutional amendments. However, in
the process, this bill firmly shuts both doors. The front door
approach requires, as we ail know, an amending formula of seven
provinces containing more than 50 per cent of the population.
The back-door bill we have before us would take that threshold
to seven provinces and about 94 per cent of the population. If
passed, it will firmly trap us in a permanent constitutional
stalemate on these key issues.
Constitutions must be flexible to accommodate the evolving
realities of a sense of country. Canada is a very young
confederation. Increasingly, it is seeking mature relationships
among the distinct, vital and component parts of our country to
achieve that sense of citizenship which we ail enjoy. It is my
feeling that Bill C- 110 will stultify this evolution and this
growth.
The bill before us is more likely to intensify the destructive
forces of deconfederation than to nurture new forms of
re-confederation. This reality should not be masked by the
illusion of equality gained through a transitory, ad hoc system of
regional vetoes contained in Bill C-1 10.
Many British Columbians understand this reality. It always
amazes me how closely the affairs of this chamber are followed
by people in British Columbia. My mailbag does not contain one
letter of support for this legislation. I am sure members on both
sides of this house would like to hear from the people of British
Columbia directly.
From Salt Spring, we have a correspondent who describes
these initiatives as full of 'judicial potholes" which can only be
divisive and destructive. He adds that at this time none of us
knows which way the country will go, but that we must open our
minds to new ideas. I know that many of us agree with that
sentiment.
From the Okanagan, we have a correspondent who states:
You, and the Senate, now have a magnificent opportunity to
prove that the Senate is an essential part of the Goveming
system of Canada. Bill C-110 will soon be reviewed in the
Senate. You are fully aware of the straight jacket
implication of the veto on constitutional change to one or
more of its component parts. Giving a veto to any province
or region is folly in its most blatant form. The present
amending formula provides sufficient restrictions on
amendments.

1Senatoi

Carne\ 1

From Chilliwack, I received a letter which states:
We think that without really wanting to the House of
Commons has passed a bill that will destroy Canada as we
know it, and hand Quebec nationalists their dreams on a
silver platter...
We implore you and your colleagues in the Senate to vote
down, or hold up forever this destructive piece of
legislation. This time the Senate has the opportunity of
being the saviours of Canada, and truly a body of sober
second thought.
A correspondent from Vancouver sent me a copy of a letter he
sent to the Prime Minister in which he states:
Re: Makeshift Unity Proposal
I cannot begin to express my total disgust at the insulting
proposai you put before the House of Commons last week
as a feeble attempt to placate the separatist elements in
Quebec. This is the first time in my 27 years in Canada that
I have been driven to write a letter of this type...
The first thing wrong with proposing anything at this time is
that it is being donc precipitately without proper thought as
to the possible consequences...
He elaborates on that point, and then states:
The second problem I have with the specific proposai
you've made is that it purports to change the effect of the
constitutional amending formula without changing the
constitution. It is therefore dishonest and, in fact,
ineffectual, since it can be reversed by a future government
of Canada. The net result of these aspects is that it is stupid,
since it then becomes quite transparent and will achieve
precisely the opposite effect to that which is intended. It is a
move which any moderately capable spin doctor would be
ashamed of.
Those comments were repeated in more eloquent form by
witnesses from B.C. before our special committee.
I wish now to refer to the views of the Honourable Andrew
Petter who chairs the B.C. National Unity Committee of Cabinet
and who is our Minister of Forests. He points out, as Senator
Kinsella indicated today, that this ill-conceived unity package
was presented without any consultation with the provinces.
Among his points I would emphasize four.
He points out that the federal response moving to five regions
does not alter the fact that any regional veto scheme is inherently
flawed. I admire the minister for saying that because in B.C.
people are in love with the concept of regional vetoes. Yet, the
minister has said, "It is one thing to give us a regional veto, but
the fact is that the concept is flawed." I commend him for
making that point.
Second. he points out that it is a hack-door attempt by the
federal government to change the way the amending formula
works in practice. and that it could not even pass its own test.

Februarv 1, 1996SNAE
February

1,

1996

SENATE DEBATES
EATS27

Third, he shows that the federal government is acting
unilaterally at this time, before the first ministers are
constitutionally mandated to review the amending formula by
April 10, 1997. He summed up by stating:
In short, we believe that the unilateral action of the federal
government in imposing Bill C-I 10 not only fails to
promote national unity, but impairs it.
The committee also heard from Andrew Heard, a professor at
Simon Fraser University. I wish to emphasize the key points that
he made when he told us:
While I applaud proposais that aim at saving this country
from partition, I must voice grave worries when proposais
would make the needed constitutional change extremely
difficult, even impossible, to achieve.
He told us how this proposal does, for the first time in Canada,
set up a hierarchy of first-, second-, third- and fourth-class
provinces.
Gordon Gibson, a political commentator in B.C. who is a
former Liberal and highly respected former politician told the
committee that, in his view, Bill C-10 is a political mistake,
incompletely conceived, with the best of intentions. I would
stress that there is no getting away from the fact that there is
support for the government's intentions in this bill. We all
support the intentions of a bill or any measure which is designed
to reduce constitutional tensions. As my colleague Michael
Meighen says, this is the wrong step in the right direction. The
step is not helpful and has failed to gain support in all parts of the
country.
Senator Kinsella, as chairman of this committee, has suggested
three modest amendments. One of them is the sunset clause. If
this bill is a temporary, transitory bill, then why not limit it? The
minister says that it is a transition measure. That being the case,
we should ensure that it does not take on a life of it's own and be
on the books 100 years from now. On that issue alone - and I
am looking at senators in this chamber who may not have made
up their minds on this issue - we would propose this modest
amendment.
The second amendment deals with defining the nature of
provincial consent and suggesting that that consent should be
through the legislative assemblies of the provinces. I was
shocked when the minister and the law officers of the Crown told
us that this bill, by intention, was vague about how provincial
consent could be obtained.
This is not an issue particularly in British Columbia because,
in British Columbia, provincial law requires that a referendum be
held before a province takes a position on a constitutional
amendment.
Our confederation is based upon the concept of a partnership
between a federal Parliament and provincial legislatures. For a
federal government to say, "We have designed this bill so that we
can circumvent provincial legislatures; we can go around them
directly to the people to attain something called 'provincial
consent'", undermines the very partnership concept of

2575

Confederation. For that reason alone, as Claude Ryan and other
witnesses told us, the bill is indefensible.
The final amendment deals with the position of the aboriginal
citizens of this country. This is important in British Columbia
where we are on the verge of signing treaties which will help
stabilize a tense situation in British Columbia. The concept that
this bill could destabilize that process would be very difficult for
British Columbians to live with.
In summary, the amendments proposed by the committee,
modest though they may be, will, as Senator Kinsella says,
salvage this bill. If it does not give substance to the bill, it will at
least make it work in our best interests.
I am worried that the bill, as others have indicated, will be
considered the last word on constitutional reform. Some people
in this country would be willing to settle for this modest measure.
That should concern us ail, because it is by no means the answer
to the constitutional crisis we face.
A special committee to deal with the unity issues, as suggested
by Senator Beaudoin, could be helpful in allowing members of
this chamber to go out and talk to Canadians and to try to procure
new ideas, new solutions, new visions and new dreams of the
country to replace the tired and discredited ones.
I am deeply concerned that my colleague Senator Oison
registered his objection to that suggestion this morning. It raises
a fear in my mind that this bill is all there is from the government
side of the house. Having passed this bill, Senator Oison, his
colleagues and his government, will consider that the file on
constitutional change is closed. I am hopeful that the concept of
a special committee will be supported by all members of this
chamber.
[Translation]

Hon. Lise Bacon: Honourable senators, in my opinion,
Bill C-l0 is an indication of the government's good faith in its
search for concrete and practical solutions to the Canadian
constitutional impasse.
The issue of a veto, particularly for Quebec, is not a new one.
Allow me to briefly mention the major developments relating to
that issue.
During the first century of our Confederation, the veto as it
relates to constitutional amendments was of little interest, since
the power to amend the Constitution Act, 1867 still rested with
the British Parliament.
However, the Balfour declaration, in 1926, on the
independence of the colonies and the adoption, in 1931, of the
Statute of Westminster made it necessary to adopt a truly
Canadian amending formula.
Stili, from 1926 to 1931, the veto issue did not trigger a great
or passionate debate since, from either a legal or a constitutional
point of view. the best argument in favour of a veto seemed to be
based essentially on the need for each province to agree to
patriate or significantly amend the Constitution.

From 1931 to 1964, during the constitutional talks, the
provinces continued to contend that their unanimous consent was
required to patriate the Constitution or adopt an amending
formula.
Yet, in 1964. the provinces adopted, at least in principle, the
Fulton-Favreau amending formula that was proposed to them.
This was a precedent. Although complex, the formula required
the unanimous consent of the provinces regarding certain issues,
including anything related to the distribution of powers.
The Fulton-Favreau formula was abandoned in 1966 because
the provinces did not unanimously support its adoption. In 1971,
the provinces agreed on a new formula, the so-called "Victoria
Charter", to patriate and to amend the Constitution. The formula
included a regional distribution which gave a veto to any
province representing or having represented 25 per cent of the
population. This meant Ontario and Quebec. as well as various
combinations of two eastern provinces and two western
provinces.
The new proposal was also rejected, for various reasons,
including political ones. In 1981, the newly re-elected Parti
Québécois government decided to oppose the repatriation of the
Constitution by forming an alliance with seven other provinces.
For the first time in its history. the Quebec government waived
its veto, which was not entrenched in the Constitution but which
it had nevertheless always enjoyed, in favour of a provision
allowing it not to be subject to a constitutional amendment and
get reasonable compensation instead. This is what we call the
opting out formula.
That decision was to have major consequences, as pointed out
by a former colleague of mine, constitutional expert Gil
Rémillard, in his book entitled Le fédéralisme canadien:
By accepting the amending formula proposed to it in
1981 by the seven other provinces, Quebec signed a
document that was to have major consequences, since that
document provides that ail provinces are equal. In other
words, Quebec waived the veto that it had always sought
until then. Quebec's signature on that document also means
that, at least formally, its govemment gave up its specificity.
We had to wait until the Meech Lake Accord in 1987 and the
Charlottetown Agreement in 1992 for new proposais that would
allow the Province of Quebec to regain its veto. As we know,
these two agreements never came about: the first one was not
ratified by the majority of the legislatures and the second one
was not approved by the majority of voters during a Canada-wide
referendum.
As you can see, for some time now, the Province of Quebec
has been asking for a veto on amendments to the Canadian
Constitution to ensure that it can fully take part in its evolution.
and that it is protected from future amendments that could take
away some of its powers. rights and privileges and those of the
National Assembly.

1 Senatoi

Bacon |

I firmly believe, therefore, that the bill before us is an
appropriate response to the urgent message sent to the federal
government on referendum night, October 30, by the people of
Quebec. who want quick and concrete action to renew Canadian
federalism.
The purpose of the bill is to show clearly, right after the
referendum, what the position of the federal Parliament is on this
issue. Of course, it is not to say that it will settle everything right
away, federalism being a progressive system, but it is a first step
in the right direction towards what I call national reconciliation.
to use an expression we are familiar with and one which the new
premier of Quebec kept using until a little while ago.
I can hear some people saying: Yes, but what does an ordinary
act mean compared to amendments enshrined in the
Constitution? Actually, I heard my colleague Senator Rivest ask
this very question this morning.
To those people I would say, first of all, that constitutional
reform has always been a complicated process, not only in
Canada but in aIl democratic countries which are part of a
confederation. Hence. the significance of the bill, which should
help our country make a first step in a very complicated area, as
I said earlier.
It will not be too late in April 1997, at the next constitutional
conference. to review the existing amending formula. In the
meantime, this regional veto fills the gap. recognizing that some
provincial concems are well-founded.
As for the weight of an act of Parliament compared to a
constitutional amendment, a federal statute adopted by the
Parliament of Canada should not be taken lightly. The present
government and ail future governments will be bound by it, and
it is not every day that a statute is repealed. Once this bill has
been enacted, changing it would be very costly. AIl future
govemments will be very aware of that fact.
It seems to me that regional vetoes are more appropriately
dealt with in a statute than in a simple resolution. as is the case
for the distinct society issue, because they require the federal
government to act in a certain way.
In practice, this bill will affect amendments that are subject to
the 7-50 rule. These include changes in the distribution of powers
in favour of the provinces, changes regarding federal institutions,
the extension of existing provinces into the territories or the
creation of new provinces, and other constitutional amendments
of a general nature.
Bill C- 110 does not change the Constitution or the procedure
for amending the Constitution. It just indicates some cases where
the government will impose its own veto.
The provinces already have significant individual vetoes under
the Constitution. For example, each province has veto power in
matters that require unanimity such as the composition of the
Supreme Court and the amending formula itself. In addition.
cach province has veto power regarding any alteration to its
boundaries and any constitutional amendment relating to that
province in particular.

February 1, 1996

February I. 1996

SENATE DEBATES

SENATE DEBATES

2577

2577

Moreover, the right to opt out of an amendment that transfers
provincial legislative powers to Parliament, with reasonable
compensation if the amendment relates to education or other
cultural matters, is another form of veto power given to a
province.

On October 30 last year, Quebecers said once again that they
wanted Quebec to continue to be part of Canada. They also said
they were dissatisfied with the status quo and wanted change. By
tabling Bill C-110, the Government of Canada has shown that it
understood the message and that it is listening.

Bill C- 110 creates a new regional veto which, in fact, would
apply to proposed changes to national institutions such as the
Senate and the House of Commons, to the creation of a new
province and to all changes dealing with the distribution of
legisiative powers where the federal Parliament transfers powers
to provinces.

The outcome on October 30 told us we cannot take Canada for
granted. In other words, we have to move and act quickly to
prepare for the future, and the bill before us is, in my opinion, a
step in the right direction.

It should also be noted that all constitutional amendments
dealing with areas in which provinces already have a veto power,
for example the composition of the Supreme Court of Canada
and boundaries between provinces are, I repeat, specifically
excluded from the bill.
Honourable senators, the history of our country, Canada, is the
result of a consensus envied by many countries around the world.
However, consensus does not mean stagnation. That is why
discussions aimed at improving and adjusting the original
consensus are held periodically.
Some will say that all these rounds of constitutional talks are a
serious waste of time, energy and money. To them I say that
regular discussions show that our federation is capable of
evolving and adapting. Discussions also prove the great openness
of mind of those who have lead the destiny of this country to this
day. But we must do more.
As was pointed out so aptly by new federal Minister of
Intergovemmental Affairs Stéphane Dion at his swearing-in, and
I quote:
Our second strength is that our federation is based on
decentralisation. A strong Canada is more than a strong
federal government. It means a strong federation. Canada is
fortunate in that its provinces enjoy considerable autonomy,
which is conducive to creative emulation. It was a province,
Saskatchewan, that paved the way for our public health
systems. It is thanks to decentralization that eight provinces
out of ten are on the way to balancing their budgets. each
using its own resources and its own strategies.
...The Swiss have the most powerful municipal system in
the world and take great pride in this very decentralized
system, as another reason to feel Swiss. Similarly,
Canadians have nothing to fear from decentralization. We
know enough about it to make it work for us.

Honourable senators, Bill C-110 is a concrete and tangible
initiative that confirms the govemment is determined to do what
it can, and must, to protect Canada's regions in the event of
constitutional change.
We must not miss this unique opportunity, and that is why I
urge the members of this house to vote for this bill and invest in
the continuity of this country.
[English]
Hon. Edward M. Lawson: Honourable senators, we hear
more and more from across the country that it is time to hear
from ordinary Canadians on the issue of separation and the unity
of the country. That is a good idea but, unfortunately, many of
the ordinary Canadians with whom I have spoken are somewhat
confused.
After the resuits of the last referendum, the Prime Minister
said that he would ensure that the next question would be more
clear and precise. We then heard the Minister of Justice say that
the government would examine the matter to determine whether
it is legal to separate.
One ordinary Canadian said to me, "If the intention of the
Fathers of Confederation was that it would be easy for provinces
to separate, they would have put in revolving doors instead of
borders, so that the provinces could come and go as they
pleased."
Surely that was not the intention. Whenever a problem arises,
the government strikes an ad hoc committee. As one ordinary
Canadian said to me, the govemment is making a "mockery of
adhockery."

Honourable senators, for a country as vast and complex as
Canada to be able to continue to develop and prosper, those who
are responsible for its future must be attuned to the needs and
demands of its citizens.

I was speaking with ordinary Canadians at a hockey game in
B.C. recently. They said that it appears, from what the Prime
Minister has said, that he concedes that there will be another
referendum. That will be the third. They said that Minister Rock
is studying whether or not this is legal. They said that surely to
God someone should have checked this 15 years ago, or at least
prior to the last referendum. Should someone not have done that
and, if it is not legal, stopped the process? That is a valid
question.

Bill C-110. on which we will soon be asked to vote, is tangible
and concrete proof of this awareness, which is part and parcel of
a federal system that is constantly evolving and is able to adjust
to the needs of its citizens and to economic change.

They asked what the rules are for separation. I told them that I
do not know. They said that, although I may not know, surely the
federal government knows. I told them that the federal
government does not appear to know.

They explained that, in the playoffs for the Stanley Cup. il is
known in advance that the two finalists will play until one tearn
wins four out of seven games. The same holds truc in the World
Series. They suggested that perhaps we should adopt that rule. If
we did. since Canada bas won two, Quebec would have to win
the next four out of five in order to win the right to separate.

prepared to have your province separate from Canada. to give up
your ciîizenship and to assume your share of the debt?"

While speaking of basebail. one of those ordinary Canadians
with whom 1 was talking recalled the great Casey Steng-el wbo
was the manager of the New York Yankees. with great success.
He then became the manager of the New York Mets. wbere he
lost 23 games straighî. He gathered the players together and cried
out, "Doesn't anybody here know how to play this gamne?"

Tell an uncballenged lie often enough and it eventually
beconies gospel.

That is what ordinary Canadians are asking. Does anyone here
know how to play the separation game? Perhaps one should add
"1other than Quebec."
This is not the Stanley Cup of separation or the World Series
ot separation. The prize is greater than a cup or a îrophy; it is the
future of our country.
Recently we read in the newspaper that the Prime Minister bas
said that 50 plus 1 wiIl flot do it. Well, what will do it? WiIl
50 plus 2 do it? Two-thirds? Seventy-five per cent? No one
seems to know. How can ordinary Canadians render any
assistance when no one understands the rules?
Mr. Parizeau says that we cannot stop the vote so we should
forget what Minister Rock is saying about il being legal or
illegal. Premier Bouchard says that we cannot change the
numbers. that il would be undeniocratic to change them, and that
we would be held in disrepute around the world if we did so.
0f course. Mr. Bouchard bas a position on everything, and it is
to be constantly on the attack. He is an intellectual bully. He may
be an intellectual. but if you strip it ail down. he is stili just a
bully; and we seem to be rolling over and playing dead. That is
not satisfactory.
We have some suggestions from ordinary Canadians. On the
issue of' whether it is legal or not legal: find out. If it is not legal,
declare in Parliament. by whatever it takes. that there will be no
future separations by any province - end of transaction.
With regard 10 how to respond 10 Premier Bouchard, since
there is the precedent of two previous referenda, we should tell
him in a straightforward mariner that. although there have been
two mistakes made, that is no justitication tor continulng to make
mistakes. That is not a bad suggestion from ordinary Canadians.
1 have heard a number of suggestions on how to proceed if it is
determined that it is legal to separate. Some people from British
Columbia have said that we should not talk only about Quebec
separating because they may decide to separate themselves. and
they therefore suggest some new miles.
The first is that any province may apply 10 the federal
government for approval t0 separate after having received ils
owfl legisiative approval. It would then apply 10 the lederal
governmentl'for approval. The federal goverinment niusi examine
the question to sec whether il meets the test of clearness and
precision. Il m1USi be sornethintg Simple sUcb as. "Are NOLu
1 Senator Lawso

]Ot

The suggestion is that the federal government should set
precise rules. That is necessary because, as I read in Rick
Gibbons' column in today's Ottawa San:

That, more than anything, is what really confronts the
Chretien governmenî today in Quebec.
And they really only have themselves

10

blame for it.

Separatists have been given such free rein to spread their
myths and outright distortions about the province's lot in
Canada in recent years that their lies have come to be
accepted as truth.
In reference to a Globe and Mail polI. this journalist says the
fol lowing:
Among other tbings, the polI discovered that a majority of
Quebecers actually believe that they pay disproportionately
higher federal taxes te, Canada and get much Iess than other
Canadians in return from federal spending or from
unemployment insurance.
The facts speak otherwise...
The tederal governiment bas a great responsibility
precise question.

10

ensure a

The suggestion of my ordinary Canadian friends is that when
the federal govemrment determines the question il sbould send il
to the provinces and, if it is not prepared 10 apply the unanimous
rule, it should apply the rule in existence for any other
constitutional amendment. which is that il must receive the
approval of seven provinces represenîing 50 per cent of the
population. When that is donc. the malter wiIl come back 10
Parliament.
Parliament would then have 10 approve the next step. My
ordinary Canadian friends propose that, when that is finished. the
federal governmenî should advise the province which bas
requested 10 separate chat il may proceed te, caîl a referendum on
the specific question drafted by the federal governimenî. with no
interference or further involvement by the federal govemrment.
wiîh one exception: that is. that il will supervise the vote in order
that we will have none of the fraudulent voîing practices that
occurred in the last referendum.
If the question is passed with a majority previously decided
upon by the federal government - be il 60 per cent, two-îhirds
or whatever -my ordinary Canadian friends suggest that there
be a national reterendum in order that ordinary Canadians can
bave a say in deciding the future of their country. They will no
longer accept being told. "Don*t gel involved: don't rock the
boat. ibis is a Quebec issue." Tbev say. as do 1. that il is not a
Quebec issuie, il is a Canadian issue wbicb affects tbe country as
a whole. and thai we hav e tbe riebit to be in\ olved.

February 1, 1996

Febmary 1, 1996

SENATE DEBATES

SENATE DEBATES

2579

2579

Although this plan may have many flaws, it is certainly much
more clear and precise than what has been happening to date.

legislation. and the Province of British Columbia asked us not to
amend it but to kill it.

That brings me to Bill C- 110. If the govemment had continued
with its previous strategy, which, in my view, was no strategy at
ail, I could not have supported the present position and could not
support this proposed legislation. However, I accept that the
government seems to be adopting a new policy of tough love.

I wish to qualify British Columbia's position for the Senate.
The party in power in British Columbia is very close to calling
an election, and there may have been some electioneering in the
position they have taken at this particular point in time, in spite
of the fact that Minister Petter from British Columbia made an
excellent presentation on behalf of his province.

I am particularly concerned about the Prime Minister's
commitment, made during the war of the referendum, to give
Quebec distinct society status, the veto and so forth. If he had
done that as an ordinary member of Parliament, that would be his
problem. However, he did that as Prime Minister on behalf of us
ail. I am from the old school that says that if you give your word,
you keep it; if you make a commitment, you honour it. In view of
that, I will support this bill.
Hon. Gerry St. Germain: Honourable senators, I had the
distinct honour and pleasure of sitting on the special committee
struck to study Bill C- 110. I would thank my colleagues on both
sides of the house for the patience and understanding which was
displayed in that committee and for the sound and intelligent
debate which was held on this issue.
I have heard what my colleagues from British Columbia,
Senators Lawson and Carney, have had to say on this matter.
eusom

There is, without question, in the minds and souls and hearts
of Canadians right across this country a desperation for a
comprehensive plan to emerge with some logic for dealing with
this contentious issue of separation which has been haunting us
since 1980.
I will be brief today. Much has already been said on the
aspects of the legislation by senators on both sides. I, like many,
was taken aback in that we were being asked to support
Bill C- 110 as presented to us by the Minister of Justice. He came
before us and said that the bill was transitory and political in
nature. Senator MacEachen brought this point forward while the
Minister of Justice was before the committee. Asking individuals
to set aside their partisanship requires a bit of consideration and
deep thought. I know that Senator MacEachen understands that
very well, inasmuch as, I am sure, in the final analysis he will
rise in support of Canada over and above any partisanship.
One thing that has concerned me ever since I have been in this
place is the fact that whenever we are dealing with legislation,
whether it be Bill C-68 or Bill C- 110, there is no consultation.
That consultation is critical if we are to deal with the numerous
challenges that face us as a nation, whether it be with our
aboriginal people, with regions, or with provinces.
During the hearings I heard our aboriginal people state that
they had not been consulted. I listened to presentations on behalf
of the Province of British Columbia, the Northwest Territories
and the Yukon, and there was no consultation.
As Senator Carney pointed out. it is a bit of a strange situation
when a bill which is presented does not even pass its own test.
because the established regions clearly spoke out against the

My greatest concern is that this particular piece of legislation
builds huge expectations. I am concerned that the government, in
presenting Bill C- 110, has not really dealt with the problem head
on. They are trying to do through the back door what they should
be doing through the front door.
If we are trying to protect and deal with the interests of
Quebec, why did we not draft a piece of legislation which gave
them vetoes in the areas that they feel must be protected? Why
are we giving vetoes to everyone and virtually creating a
gridlock situation? We should have been proceeding in the spirit
with which Canadians opened their arms to deal with this
situation. This was the most opportune time to come forward
with legislation of that nature.
I said I would not speak long, and I will not. I will conclude by
saying that we must defeat separatism. Failure is not an option.
We must go forward. We must defeat these people who are
advocating separation, whether it be in my province, the province
of Quebec or any other province or region in this country. We
must work together. We must team up and set aside our
partisanship.
It may be hard for some of you to believe that I would stand in
this place and say that after the partisan positions I have taken,
but I have never dealt with an issue such as we are dealing with
now. I ask honourable senators to consider what was said about
my leader during the referendum, particularly the fact that what
he said was delivered with emotion. I knew that he would deliver
his comments with emotion, but I am saying that it is said and
others have said it.
I find it strange that to deal with this problem of separation, we
are holding meetings all over, and yet the govemment is trying to
deal with it from a one-sided point of view, as opposed to
bringing in more people and groups from right across the country
to try to resolve something that will surely destroy us if we fail.
I believe that the Senate should set up a committee. Numerous
groups have been in contact with my office, and I am sure they
have been in contact with other honourable senators. They have
ideas. I speak of universities, academic groups from ail sectors,
and industrial groups. The head of the Bank of Montreal has said
that we came within a whisker of losing our country. I speak of
BCNI and whatever organization you can think of. They are
prepared to come forward and give their time and knowledge to
this cause.
Honourable senators. it is time that we buried the hatchets of
partisanship. Believe me, it is time that we dealt with this issue
head on, and started working with aIl good men and women in
this country. This is no time to be involved in political activity or
partisanship. We are dealing with an issue that could decide the
future of our country.

I know that it is hard for those of us who have been in parties,
who have been presidents of parties and have been in cabinets
and political campaigns. whether they be national campaigns or
provincial campaigns, to believe that we should take such a
stance. However we have never faced anything as severe in the
history of our country. I urge each and every honourable senator
to consider this aspect as we go forward.

Senator Oison: The opposition says that the bill means
nothing. I agree that it is not an amendment to the Constitution.
Hence, what is al] the fuss about?

Hon. H. A. Oison: Honourable senators, I do not believe that
I have ever heard such a repetitious litany of weak arguments
from the opposition in all the years I have been here -

Senator Oison: Of course, we understand that, but why come
along with all these arguments that the bill is vital to Canada if it
means nothing to you anyway?

Some Hon. Senators: Oh! Oh!
Senator Oison: - to support their reasons for bringing in
these amendments. Senator St. Germain makes a plea for
non-partisanship and all that nonsense. That is junk, because then
they bring in three amendments which have nothing in them
except some manifestation of partisanship.
Senator St. Germain: Did you consuit us before you -

Senator Oison: Consult? You were at the committee. In fact,
you had a majority at the committee. You bring in these kinds of
amendments. Why?
Senator St. Germain: Why did you not consult us before you
drafted the legislation?

Senator Berntson: It is a bridge into the fog.

Senator DeWare: We do not trust you.

The Prime Minister made a commitment. and the people in my
part of Canada were grateful that he did. He made a commitment
during the referendum campaign that he would do this.
Senator Berntson: He made a commitment to get rid of the

GST.
Senator Oison: Perhaps members on the other side of the
chamber do not understand that some political leaders keep their
promises.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: Have you read the Red Book
recently?

To deal with the arguments that have been made, if I may,
Senator Kinsella, the chairman of the committee. tells us that
Bill C-I 10 must pass test number one: Does it give Quebec what
it wants? He went on to argue that no. it does not.

Senator Oison: Senator Kinsella, the chairman of the
committee, said that the Conservatives wanted to be supportive
and helpful in dealing with Bill C- 110. I must say that I do not
think they are being either supportive or heipful. I am having a
great deal of difficulty understanding why they introduced these
amendments. Are they attempting to throw a wrench into the
gears? If that happens, we must send the bill back to the House of
Commons. They must then reconvene and deal with those
amendments. We know that 102 members voted against the bill
in that chamber. We have some problems.

It depends on who you are talking about in Quebec. In case
honourable senators opposite have forgotten again - they seem
to forget things easily on the other side - the vote was
50 per cent plus to stay with Canada. They should remember
that.

Please do not say that you want to be nonpartisan and pass this
bill in the interests of Canada, and then argue that the scenario
you would be setting up if we support these amendments would
be supportive and helpful, because it is not. It is very definitely
not supportive or helpful.

Senator Oison: In case you do not remember, you guys did
not get elected. You lost every seat you had but one. You saved
Charest, and that is all.

S(1510)

It was not the other way around at ail.
Senator Kinsella said that the second test was this: Does the
bill undermine the development of a Constitution? Does it
establish the means by which the provinces can give their
consent? He then said that the bill offends the principle of
federalism, whatever that means. Then he asked if the bill
advances the cause of national unity. Whoever said the bill was
designed to do any of those things?
Honourable senators, the Prime Minister, the Minister of
Justice, and everyone else who appeared before the committee,
said over and over again that Bill C- 110 is a bridge
Senator Berntson: To what?
Senator Oison: - from now until the required constitutional
conference in 1997. That is clear.
1 Senator St Gernain |

The Prime Minister has said, over and over again since the
Liberal victory a couple of years ago, that he does not want to get
into a constitutional debate again until the spring of 1997 when
he is obliged to do so because of a decision made by all the first
ministers some time ago.

Senator Lynch-Staunton: Except one.
Senator Oison: Except one, but 10 out of l1 is not bad.
Perhaps every first minister will attend the next conference.
Honourable senators, everyone admits that this bill is a
temporary measure. It is a bridge to get us from here to there.
The Prime Minister is keeping the promise he made during the
referendum campaign. However, supporting these amendments
will only gum things up. These amendments add nothing useful
to Bill C- 110. either temporarily or in the long term.
Senator Berntson: Did you read it?

Februarv 1, 1996
February

1,

1996

SENATE DEBATES
EAE
SNT

Senator Oison: Of course I read it. It is only two or three
pages in length. It was not difficult to read.
What puzzles me is that the Leader of the Conservative Party,
Mr. Charest, was one of the very helpful people in the
referendum campaign.
Senator St. Germain: You are right. Without him, you would
have lost.
Senator Oison: I am not sure about that. Do not
overemphasize what he did.
Canadians, even from my part of Canada, know about
Mr. Charest's contribution and they appreciated it. However, now
we have the Conservatives coming along with these
amendments. Who is running this party anyway?
Senator Berntson: Come along with this gang.
Senator Oison: And wreck all the good you had bestowed on
yourselves because of the activities of your leader during the
referendum campaign?
Senator Lynch-Staunton: Mr. Charest is opposed te the bill.
Senator Oison: I have not heard him say that.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: Oh, yes.
Senator Oison: Unless that is demonstrated to me, it is
difficult for me to buy, because he is in favour of what he did
himself, and of what was done by Jean Chrétien and others in
Quebec during the referendum campaign. Has he changed his
mind since then?
Senator Lynch-Staunton: He is in favour of entrenching the
Meech Lake Accord in the Constitution.
Senator Oison: The Meech Lake Accord and the
Charlottetown Agreement were defeated years ago.

Senator Lynch-Staunton: Why did he not get the message
before the referendum? He was out west raising money for the
party and lulling everyone to sleep.
Senator Oison: You are so smart in retrospect. You know all
the answers. Your hindsight is 20/20.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: Where was Mr. Charest during the
referendum? Where Mr. Chrétien should have been.
Senator Oison: Mr. Charest does not have any party.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: Well, he saved your bacon.
Senator Oison: I am not sure that the generosity of the other
side will allow me to finish.
Honourable senators, let us be clear on the rules of the game.
The new Minister of Intergovemmental Affairs has said that
some things ought to have been said before. If Canada is
divisible, so too is Quebec. If Mr. Bouchard wants to divide
Canada, he had better face up to the consequences. If my
memory serves me correctly, the Northern Cree of Quebec have
already voted 96 per cent in favour of remaining part of Canada.
I would bet anything that, if a vote were taken in the region from
Montreal to west Quebec, an overwhelming majority would vote
to remain Canadian. I would also bet that, if a vote were taken in
the Eastern Townships of Quebec, those people would also opt to
remain Canadian. They do not want some people in another part
of Quebec to decide whether they can remain Canadian or not.
Let us face it, we need some better rules. We need some
support from this opposition which Senator St. Germain calls
"non-partisan". He suggests that we set our partisanship aside
and that we all pull together. I agree with that. Let us not
introduce these kind of amendments which just gum up the
works.

Senator Lynch-Staunton: What is this bridge? The
honourable senator does not seem to know what body of water
this bridge will be crossing.

If we defeat these amendments and pass Bill C-110, a bridge
from now until the spring of 1997 will be built. At that time,
Canada's leaders will get down to the business of considering
what the whole country needs and wants by way of changes to
the Constitution, including the amending formula.

Senator Oison: If you want te live in the past, go ahead; we
do not. We will keep our word to the people of Quebec until
1997 when there will be a constitutional conference with all
governments being represented. It is to be expected that all will
attend and work everything out.

What is so unreasonable about that? I ask senators opposite:
Why not do that as opposed to bringing in these partisan
amendments for no good reason at all, amendments which I do
not think are supported by your leader?

I appreciated what Senator Lawson had to say. I am not sure I
agree with all of the details he gave with respect te what the rules
should be, but I think there should be rules rather than have
people stand back and watch someone else decide what will
happen to their country.
The most frustrating part of the referendum campaign was that
the people from my part of the country felt they had to sit idly by,
helplessly watching someone else decide the fate of their country.
They did not like that. They did not like it, and they do not want
it to happen again. Mr. Chrétien has that message too, and he
intends to he involved.

Senator Berntson: I am sure he would have called you first.
Senator Oison: I saw him yesterday morning at breakfast,
although I guess I should not say that.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: I saw you, too.
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, I hesitate to
interrupt the Honourable Senator Olson, but his time has expired.
Is leave granted for the honourable senator to continue'?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.

Senator Oison: 1 tbank honourabie senators.
1 agree that we sbouid set aside our political partisansbip in the
intercsts of Canada and do tbe rigbt thing. Let us defeat these
amendments so that we can pass this bill which is the necessary
bridge to next year. Then ail goverfiments can consuit and
consider what a good Canadian Constitution ougbt 10 contain.
Hon. John Lynch-Staunton (Leader of the Opposition):
Honourabie senators, 1 sbouid like to ask a question of Senator
Oison, wbo is a senior member of the Liberai Party. If a province
decides to secede frorn Canada, is it government policy that there
can be divisions witbin that province if a pocket of the
population wants to remain in Canada? Is the government
preparing a policy based flot only on the possibiiby of the
country being broken up. but on that part of the country being
broken up furtber? Are we talking about fractioning the country
ratber than keeping it together?
Senator Oison stated that tbere was a possibiiity that the
Eastern Townships would opt 10 stay in Canada whiie other areas
wouid opt to remain wîthout. Is this tbe honourabie senator's
personai view. or the view of the Government of Canada wbicb,
obviously, was discussed at your caucus meeting in Vancouver?

province want. That is what they wiii demand the next time, if
there is to be any more of these types of referendums. They want
to have sometbing to say about the future of Canada.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: Does the Government of Canada
now feel that Canada is divisible'?
Senator Oison: That is flot for me to answer.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: Senator Oison raised the subject.
Senator Oison: 1 do not make statements for and on bebaif of'
the governiment. The honourabie senator knows that very well.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: That is reassuring. What concernis
many of us is the fact that the government is considering the
possibiiîy that this country wiil break up. instead of doing ail it
can to convince Canadians. as the rest of the worid says, that this
country sbould remain intact.
Senator Oison: Do not throw up straw men which you know
have notbing to do witb it.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: You started it, senator.

Senator Oison: Honourable senators, I tbougbt 1 made it
perfectly clear that wbat 1 was saying was that the new Minister
of Intergovernmentai Affairs said tbat. foiiowing tbe logic that if
Canada is divisible. it means that Quebec is divisible. Is there
anybhing wrong witb that?

Senator Stanbury: 1 agree witb Senator St. Germain. Let us
be non-partisan.

Senator Lynch-St.aunton: Wbcre is the logic that Canada is
divisible?

TOBACCO PRODUCT RESTRICTIONS BILL,

On motion of Senator Graham, debate adjourned.

SECOND) READING

Senator Oison: Who bas said tbat wc agree with that?
Mr. Bouchard needs to undersîand that.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: Senator Oison bas twice quobed tbc
new Minister of Intergovernmentai Affairs to the effect tbat
Canada is divisible.
Senator Oison: No. he did not. You left oub tbc word "il."
Senator Lynch-Staunton: 1 suggest tbat tbe bonourable
senator read the statement made by Minister Dion on tbe day he
was swomn in and tbat be look for tbe word "if." I do flot think be
xviii lïnd it.
Senator Oison: I amn sure il was ini the îîcwspapers. 1 believe
tbe Prime Minister aiso said that afterwards in Vancouver. Let us
flot be unciear about wbat 1 said.
Mr. Bouchard bas jumped up and said. "Ob, no." I remember a
lime about tbree montbs ago. prior to tbe referendum. wben
someone made tbe same suggestion. Mr. Parizeau was still in
charge of something - be was the premier of Quebec. as a
matter of fact. He became very indignant and said, "For God's
sake. icave tbe borders alone.- He made that statement on a
television interview wbicb was broadcast ail across tbis country.
Mv answcî to Mr. Parizcau ., -For God's sake. Icave thc
borders of Canada alone.- That is vwhat the people ifl my

On the Order:
Resuming the debate on the motion of the Honourable
Senator Haidasz. seconded by the Honourabie Senator
Cools. f'or the second reading of' Bill S-14. to restrict the
manufacture. sale, importation and advertising of tobacco
products.
Hon. William M. Kelly: Honourabie senators. some of you
may be aware that in another part of my iife I amn the chairman of
a tobacco company. In order to, avoid the appearance of a conflict
of interest. therefore. 1 bave refrained from speaking on any
initiative that comes before this place that relates iargely or
exclusiveiy to tobacco.
1 bave, however, decided to speak today to Bill S-14 because 1
have concluded that Bill S-i14 raises a senious issue. Because of
my knowiedge of the business. 1 feel 1 wouid be remiss in my
duty not to at least comment on this matter.
I wiil not debate the objectives of' Bill S-14, namely. whether
tobacco, or any product for that matter that is legaiiy soid iii
Canada, shouid be separated out l'or this kind of special
legisiative trcatmnent. 1 wiii simply comment on the efficacy of
Bill S-14, and wbethcr Bill S-14 will achieve its stated
objectives.

February 1, 1996

Februarv 1, 1996

SENATE DEBATES

SENATE DEBATES

The purpose of Bill S-14. at least in the context of the issue I
wish to address, is to reduce what Bill S-14 sees as the health
hazards associated with tobacco by imposing a reduction in tar
and nicotine levels. It is this aspect of the bill that I wish to focus
on. First, let us look at some history.
For the past decade or so, the federal and provincial
governments followed an aggressive policy of tobacco taxation
aimed at discouraging consumption. High increases in tobacco
taxes became a feature of federal budgets beginning in the
mid-1980s but particularly in 1990, 1991 and 1992. The question
is: Did that exercise work? The answer is no, it did not.
As the Minister of Health herself acknowledged during her
press conference on December I1 last year, high tobacco taxes
had no discernible impact on consumption. Instead, high tobacco
taxes put in motion the laws of unintended consequences. High
tobacco taxes in Canada gave rise to tobacco smuggling on an
unprecedented scale. They also gave rise to the illegal production
of contraband cigarettes in Canada for sale through the
underground market. They encouraged smokers to move to "roll
your own" tobacco products and to raw tobacco. What they did
not do was discourage consumption.
According to Statistics Canada, in 1989, tobacco prevalence or
incidence of usage was slightly below 30 per cent. By 1993, it
had edged up to nearly 31 per cent. By late 1992, in some parts
of Quebec there was no legal market left. The entire market
consisted of smuggled or contraband product. In Ontario and
New Brunswick, it was estimated that up to one-third of the
market was supplied by smuggled or contraband product.
The federal government acknowledged this situation, and in
January, 1993 they rolled back tobacco taxes to the point where
smuggling was made uneconomic, and five provinces lowered
their tobacco taxes in response to the federal initiative. As a
consequence of this rollback, tobacco smuggling appears to have
declined to pre-1990 levels - at least in these five provinces.
Perhaps this point must be made as well: According to
Statistics Canada figures, consumption did not increase as a
consequence of the tax rollback. In fact, the minister herself
acknowledged that there has been no discernible difference in
consumption rates between those provinces that participated in
the tobacco tax rollback and those that did not. At her press
conference on December 11, the minister said:
No, we are not saying there has been any evidence of
increase since the tax rollback. We know that the numbers
have not changed much, especially if you look in terms of
across the country. Those provinces that lowered their taxes
and those that did not, the take-up in smoking is about the
same.
Yet today, we still live with the legacy. The smuggling network
initially set up for tobacco has now turned to beverage alcohol,
firearms, stolen credit cards, even illegal aliens. I am told that
more than 20 per cent of wine and distilled alcohol consumed in
Canada today is smuggled. Furthermore. we have fairly active
interprovincial smuggling for the first time in Canada. The
smuggling of tobacco products from low-tax provinces to

2583

2583

high-tax provinces - in the Lower Mainland of B.C., for
example - Finance Canada calculates about one-third of the
market is smuggled. Most of that is accounted for by
interprovincial smuggling.
While we all abhor this kind of underground activity, we must
al] take cognizance of the fact that a growing proportion of our
citizens are willing to break the law in order to obtain the
commodity or service they want at a price that they are prepared
to pay. There are also those, evidently, who are prepared to break
the law and take considerable risk to supply that demand. The
long-term implications of that are grave because it represents an
unprecedented erosion of the social contract between the
government and the governed.
In the same vein, I want to draw attention to another
counterproductive set of initiatives. Anti-tobacco advertising was
mentioned by Senator Haidasz in his remarks. The federal and
provincial governments have spent millions on various types
of anti-smoking advertisements, yet apparently without
discouraging smoking.
The federal Department of Health pulled a series of
anti-smoking advertisements after they found that teenagers, the
intended audience, were laughing at them. Ontario focus groups,
set up to evaluate a series of Ontario government-sponsored
advertisements, found that one of them made smoking look sexy.
The moral is as old as the story of Adam and Eve in the
Garden of Eden. That which is forbidden becomes more
desirable through the act of being forbidden. Authors and
publishers understand this well: Criticize or ban my book if you
will; it will only add to the sales.
Whether or not we are courageous enough to recognize it, in
the main, past government initiatives to reduce smoking have
been extremely costly but they have been public policy failures.
With that experience in mind, let us now turn to Bill S-14. This
bill would prohibit the sale of cigarettes that have more than
1.0 milligrams of tar and 0.3 milligrams of nicotine. In the press
release accompanying this bill, Senator Haidasz correctly pointed
out that these levels correspond to so-called ultralight cigarettes
which are currently on the market, and are produced by two of
the three Canadian tobacco manufacturers.
Bill S-14 overlooks the fact that only about 1 per cent of the
market currently buys these products. If Bill S-14 comes into
force, 99 per cent of the market would be left out; ninety-nine per
cent of consumers would be faced with a product selection which
does not satisfy their preferences.
With history in mind, what would they do? Bill S-14 assumes
they would merely adjust their smoking tastes, or give up
smoking altogether. I think, honourable senators, we know better.
Our recent experience with tobacco smuggling in response to
high Canadian taxes proves beyond a shadow of a doubt that
Bill S-14, as did high tobacco taxes, would set in motion again
the law of unintended consequences. Smokers would not meekly
adjust their tastes or give up smoking; they will instead, in large
numbers, search out the products they want, even if that means
buying smuggled or contraband cigarettes. The smuggling
network which already exists will happily satisfy that denand.

At the end of the day. no one is furiher ahead - except. of
course, the smugglers - while a very major portion of the
market will shift from legal product to smuggled or contraband
product. Tax revenues will be lost. Retailers and wholesaiers
across the country will suffer.
As a consequence. Bill S-14 will flot achieve the objectives it
was designed to achieve. 1 arn also advised that there are a
number of technical problems with Bill S-14 which would, on
their own, effectively neutralize its impact, or cause serious
enforcement or interpretation problems. I do flot intend to get
into those matters today. 1 trust that the technical experts will
appear before the committee and make their views known.
Honourable senators, my message and my point today are very
simple: For goodness sake, let us leamn from past experience and
flot make the same mistakes again and again. This govemment.
with the expenditure of considerable capital, recently rolled back
tobacco taxes in order to stop tobacco smuggling and contraband.
Governments have spent millions on anti-tobacco advertising
which even the anti-tobacco lobby acknowledges did flot work.
With that recent history in mind. and with ail respect to, my friend
Senator Haidasz, whose motives 1 am sure are unimpeachable.
why would we put in place a measure that would only resuscitate
the very smuggling activity which has so recently been reduced
to, manageable levels?
Honourable senators, in my view 1 have now fultilled my duty
as a senator by calling attention to the very serious issue raised
by Bill S-14, of which 1 happen to have knowledge because of
my corporate affiliations. Having fulfilled that duty. 1 intend to
go no further lest some perceive a contlict of interest. 1 shaîl
abstain from voting on Bill S-14 at any stage during its review.

Hon. Stanley Haidasz: Honourable senators. if there are no
other senators who would like to participate in this debate. I
should like to, do so.
The Hon. the Speaker: 1 wish to inform honourable senators
that if Honourable Senator Haidasz speaks now. his speech wiIl
have the effect of terminating debate on this bill.

Senator Haidasz: Honourable senators, I should like iirst to,
thank Senator Kelly for his remarks. At the beginning of this
debate, 1 invited ail senators to, take part in an effort to, improve
this bill. which 1 think is necessary in order to stem the more than
40.000 deaths in Canada every year from tobacco-related
diseases. At least 330 people die annually in Canada trom
second-hand smoke. the side-stream smoke which non-smokers
inhale when they are in a smoking envirofiment.
It is up to the members of the committee which studies this bill
to determine whether it requires amendment.
Motion agreed to and bill read second time.
REFERRED TO COMMITTEF
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, when shall this
bill be recad the third tiie'!
On motion of Senator Haidasz. hilIl rclerred to the Standine
Senate Coniiiittec on Social AI lairs. Science and Technoloex.
1,Senatorýi Kelly 1

ADJOURNMENT
Leave having been given to revert to Government Notices
of Motions:

Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourable senators. with ]cave of the Senate
and notwithstanding rule 58(l)(h), 1 move:
That when the Senate adjourns today. it do stand
adjourned until Friday, February 2, 1996. at ten o'clock in
the momning.

The Hon. the Speaker: Is leave granted. honourable senators?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Motion agreed to.

CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENTS
MOTION TO AMEND ORDER ESTABLISHING SPECIAL SENATE
COMMITTEE ON BILL C-110 ADOPTED

Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourable senators, with leave of the Senate
and flot notwithstanding rule 58(l)(i). 1 move:
That. notwithstanding the order of the Senate adopted on
December 15. 1995. no later than 1:30 p.m. tomorrow.
Friday. February 2, 1996. any proceedings before the Senate
shaîl be interrupted and ail questions necessary to dispose of
aIl remaining stages of Bill C-I 110, An Act respecting
constitutional amendments. shaîl be put forthwith without
turther debate or amendment. and that any votes on any of'
those questions flot be further deferred; and
That the belis to cail in the Senators be sounded for thirty
minutes. so that the vote will take place at 2:00 p.m.

The Hon. the Speaker: Is leave granted. honourable senators?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Motion agreed to.

PEARSON AIRPORT AGREEMENTS
THIRD REPORT 0F SPECIAL COMMITTEE-DEBATE ADJOURNED

The Senate proceeded to consideration of the third report of
the Special Committee of the Senate on the Pearson Airport
Agreements. tabled in the Senate on December 13.
I995-(Honourable Senator MacDonald (Htilifax))ç

Hon. Finlay MacDonald: Honourable senators. I tabled the
report of the Senate committee inquiring into the Pearson Airport
Agreements on December 13 last. We recessed two days later.
leaving no time to begin the debate on the consideration of' that
report. 1 do flot kîiow how many honourable senators have read
tlie report. which is long. or have conmpared the report with the
dissenti ng opinîion. nor do 1 kno\ý \hetlîer anv mi nds were
already maýde up \vith regard Io the ev~idence and flic conclusions.

Februarv 1, 1996SNAE
1,

February

1996

SENATE DEBATES
EATS28

We had 30 days of public hearings during which we heard
65 witnesses, comprising many hours of sworn testimony, and
went through 45.000 pages of documentation. We tackled a
difficult issue with painstaking research and probing questions.
My purpose today is ta deal almost entirely with the dissenting
opinion, or the minority report as it is called. At 125 pages, it
ranks as one of the longest minority reports on record. I trust,
honourable senators, that because of its creative complexity you
will grant me leave ta continue should I exceed my allotted time.
In the interests of time, I have prepared an appendix which I
had hoped ta have appended to the record of today's proceedings.
However, it has not yet been translated into the other official
language. Therefore, I will ask permission to table that document
when it is finally prepared.
The present government purported ta be relying on the Nixon
report, a study commissioned before the new govemment was
even sworn in. It was completed within 30 days and accepted
without further study or debate four days later.
As witness after witness appearing before us testified to the
transparency of the process, the benefits of the agreements and
the absence of political interference, serious doubts began to
arise regarding the reliability of Mr. Nixon's findings. On
page 105 the minority report reads:
e (1so>

Mr. Nixon was assigned a difficult task, made more
challenging by the time constraints - time constraints that
were necessitated by the new Government's decision to
move forward expeditiously with respect to Pearson airport.
(At that time, of course, the Government could not foresee
that its actions to implement its chosen policy would be
frustrated by the Conservative majority in the Senate.)
Nor could they foresee that two years later the Senate would
establish a full inquiry to examine the Pearson Airport
Agreements.
Realizing this, and not surprisingly, the Liberal members of
our committee allot the Nixon report only seven short
paragraphs. His report was not based on any substantive
research. He sought out people who would state opinions ta
support a predetermined conclusion. For example, of the
66 interviews be conducted, always in private, 23 were with
members of the Liberals' Toronto caucus, and most of the
remainder were with people opposed to privatization anyway. He
took no notes. The few public servants he did interview and who
later testified before us found Mr. Nixon's approach cursory.
I have no doubts about the sincerity of Mr. Nixon's dedication
to the public interest, as he saw it. As a matter of fact, I like
Mr. Nixon. I admired his candour when he told our committee:
I very strongly support the partisan method of our
democratic process and I support it in any way I possibly
can.

2585

Our own inquiry. however, resulted in concerns about the
judgment underlying Mr. Nixon's confidence in the process and
its results. These concerns only deepened when we considered
the number of people with whom he did not meet and should
have met because they were crucial to meeting his mandate.
He did not interview two former Ministers of Transport, the
Honourable Doug Lewis and the Honourable Jean Corbeil. He
did not interview Mr. Gien Shortliffe, the former Clerk of the
Privy Council and the former Deputy Minister of Transport. He
did not interview any senior member of the Treasury Board
Secretariat. He did not interview Mr. Don Dickson, the former
Director General of Finance of the department. He did not
interview Austin Douglas, the former Associate Director of
Transport Canada. He did not interview Michael Farquhar, the
Director General of Airport Transfer, nor did he interview
Mr. Keith Jolliffe, Financial Advisor, Transport Canada. He did
not interview Mr. Ed Warwick, the former General Manager of
Major Crown Projects at Pearson airport. He did not interview
Mr. Gerry Berrigan, Regional Director of Airports. He did not
interview Mr. Ron Lane who was the chairman of the
all-important Evaluation Committee. He did not interview
anyone representing Paxport or Claridge, the two proponents. He
did not interview Mr. Paul Stehelin of Deloitte and Touche. He
did not interview any lobbyists.
In short, Mr. Nixon denied himself the opportunity to get
information from the key people intimately involved in the
policy, the process, and the negotiations. Our committee
interviewed them ail and recalled some of them several times,
always under oath. These were the officiais who testified
unanimously to the integrity of the process and the consistency of
the transaction with the prevailing public policy objectives. Their
testimony was not analyzed, but simply obliterated from the
minority report.
The Liberals in our committee retained an Ottawa lawyer to
write what they termed their "minority report," to employ every
device to systematically take words, statements and events out of
context and impute meanings which do not stand up under
examination. It was an attempt to keep up appearances. This
report was overseen and approved by the Prime Minister's
Office. It is my opinion that few Liberal members on the
committee participated in a meaningful way in the writing of this
minority report. Indeed, this report is not in the ordinary sense a
report at ail, since that term implies a commitment ta reflect the
evidence.
Where no evidence or quotation was available, they left the
innuendo and insinuations unsupported. For instance, the shadow
of possible political manipulation loomed large in Mr. Nixon's
justification for cancellation. On page 6 of the minority report,
they write:
Was there political manipulation? Absolute proof may be
difficuit to retrieve.
I think it would have been impossible, since the chief negotiators
who would have been affected by it have sworn that it did not
occur. The minority. in spite of strenuous efforts. was unable to
uncover one piece of tangible evidence ta back that assertion of
Mr. Nixon.

Again, in Mr. Nixon's report. he writes:
It is clear that the lobbyists played a prominent part in
attempting to affect the decisions that were reached, going
far beyond the acceptable concept of consulting. When
senior bureaucrats involved in negotiations for the
Government of Canada feel that their actions and decisions
are being heavily affected by lobbyists, as occurred here, the
role of the latter has, in my view exceeded permissible
norms.
Mr. Nixon's view was not shared by one single bureaucrat.
However, bravely. the minority report ploughs on. On page 118
they write:

While it is always difficult to specify with any certainty
how much lobbying is acceptable. and at what point it
becomes excessive. in this case the Committee saw clear
evidence of extraordinary influence...

Honourable senators, this does not square. You cannot have it
both ways. Moreover it is both insulting and unworthy of the
Liberal senators who wrote it.
In the case of Pearson, there is only one conclusion: The
present government deliberately failed to seek advice from its
permanent officers or, if they did obtain it, they totally ignored it.
It is now time to turn to that which really shows what I
consider to be the total impoverishment of the minority report. It
is simply this: The concerns expressed in the minority report are
quotes from documents written months or even years before the
contracts were fully completed. These problems were resolved in
the final agreements. Yet, time and time again, the minority
reports quote critical reports prepared in the early stages of
negotiations which have no relevance to the final agreement.
This was without reference to the fact that the issues raised were
al] ultimately resolved.

Then the authors revealed their frustration with a truly
amazing conclusion on page 125:

Faced with the solid rebuttals of the government's own
permanent advisers, the Liberal members were forced to seek
solace in the minutiae of the painstaking review carried on by the
previous government and its advisors throughout the whole
process. Negative quotations were sought from any source,
however ill-informed. Failing that, they relied on their own
questions and comments during the proceedings.

With or without a Nixon Report, the Prime Minister was
clearly justified in cancelling the Pearson Airport
Agreements...

For instance, at the press conference on December 13, my
friend Senator John Bryden - I wish he were here - read and
distributed a statement in which he said:

Did the Liberal members on my committee decide to jettison the
Nixon report? Did they assume it would not be necessary for us
to kick Nixon around any more? No, not yet. He still has a lot to
answer for.

It gave the developers an exorbitant rate of return, a
return of 23.6 per cent when independent estimates provided
to the Department and to the Inquiry stated that a return of
14 - 15 per cent would have been adequate and normal in
this case, particularly since virtually ail of the risks in the
development were laid-off on the airlines, the passengers, or
the government.

However. their so-called "evidence" reveals their motives.

If the Draconian provisions of Bill C-22 cannot be supported
by the Nixon report, on what basis can they be justified?
Certainly not on the basis of the advice of the govemment's own
advisors. Every one of the principal negotiators for the
government testified before us, as did the senior officers
responsible for preparing the request for proposais and reviewing
the proposais. Ali testified that the process was fair and the
ultimate deal a good one. With the exception of one who has
retired, ail of those officers are still with the public service, some
having been promoted and others still carrying out the duties
assigned to them in 1993. All of them spoke frankly and
unequivocally at the hearing. There was no stonewalling. No one
feigned memory loss. No one challenged their integrity. And,
deliberately, none of their key testimony found its way into the
minority report.
Page 5 of the minority report states that the transaction was
proceeded with against the advice of public servants. Then. in a
mystifying inconsistency, one' turns to the next page where they
characterize the professional comportment of the same public
service as:
...an understandable reluctance on the part of civil servants
to point fingers in public at their former political masters or
to criticize the terns of the deals they themselves
neLcotiated.
1 Senalor Nlucf)oiizld 1

I do not know why Senator Bryden made this very misleading
statement. By comparing a rate of 23.6 per cent to a rate of return
of 14 to 15 per cent, he implies that the developers were to
receive almost 9 per cent more than that which was considered
adequate or normal.
As you know and as Senator Bryden had to know. the
14.1 percent tax negotiated by Transport Canada is simply an
after-tax rate, while the 23.6 figure quoted by him is a before-tax
rate. There is simply no basis for comparison. However, Senator
Bryden's statements are now a danger to his own government.
Exorbitant rates of return at no risk, as he alleges, may mean
large damages payable by the Crown to the developers.
The Crown's strategy in the litigation before the Supreme
Court of Ontario has been to entirely disclaim its own early
analysis. The Crown's current position is that the developers
underestimated its costs and overestimated its revenues.
The Hon. the Acting Speaker: Honourable senators. Senator
MacDonald's speaking time bas expired. Is leave granted so that
he may continue?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.

February 1, 1996

Februarv 1, 1996

SENATE DEBATES

SENATE DEBATES

Senator MacDonald: The Crown is putting forward the view
that the developers would not have realized any profit
whatsoever over the next 57 years of the term, but that, in fact,
they would have lost in excess of $150 million.
The government lawyers will likely argue this month in the
Supreme Court of Ontario that at least a 20-per-cent after-tax
return to the developers would have been more appropriate.
You may well ask: How could a government so shamelessly
adopt a position that contradicts all of its prior pronouncements?
The simple answer is that they have seemingly done so in the
expectation that no one will notice.
Then Senator Bryden, in dealing with the issue of Air Canada
and the request for proposals, stated:
When the Request for Proposais was issued in March, 1992,
Canada was in a recession, and the Canadian airline industry
was in free fall.

2587

2587

transborder passengers in Terminal 2 over the next three
years.
Then, in last month's publication of the enRoute magazine, Air
Canada's monthly magazine. we note these remarks from
Mr. Hollis Harris, the chairman of Air Canada:
We have already paid a heavy price for the paralysis at
Pearson. Toronto ranks as the tenth largest city in North
America, yet Pearson ranks twentieth in terms of passenger
volume.
Despite new construction, the terminais, runways and
in-transit facilities are inadequate and unable to compete
with those of other airports. Clearly, if Pearson cannot
handle future passenger and cargo growth, customers will
simply go elsewhere.
That is the story you did not get from my friends on the
committee who wrote the minority report.
*(161o)

Air Canada wanted the redevelopment delayed.
Again, this is typical of the Liberal methodology for dealing
with the entire Pearson story. They pick a point in time, recite a
negative story, and then never, ever tell the listener or the reader
that, at a later point in time, the situation completely changed.
Using this technique, they have attempted to completely distort
the Pearson saga.
Unlike Mr. Nixon, our committee has a record which Senator
Bryden has conveniently forgotten. He does not tell you what the
committee heard in evidence. In the case of Air Canada, the
Pearson agreements were negotiated in such a fashion as to
alleviate the initial financial burdens on Air Canada while
meeting its long-term needs. Air Canada, Pearson's largest
tenant, gave the Pearson agreements their full support.
As we heard from Air Canada, through Mr. David Robinson,
Director of Real Estate for Air Canada:
The most successful airports in the world such as
Schiphol Airport in Amsterdam and Changi Airport in
Singapore, have achieved their success for one very
important reason: they stayed ahead of the demand curve by
developing terminais and runways well in advance of
anticipated passenger demand. We have ail but lost that
opportunity at Pearson to the detriment of Air Canada, other
carriers, the Pearson community and the local economy.
The ideal time frame to have commenced the
redevelopment of Terminal 2 was in 1993 while passenger
numbers were down. Carrying on construction around
existing facilities is less than ideal under any circumstances,
but the disruption to the travelling public would have been
substantially less compared to the impact it will have today
and in the future. I would note for senators that the Open
Skies agreement. an important accomplishment of the
current government. will generate 50 per cent more

There is yet another story you did not hear which directly
affects Air Canada. Page 73 of the minority report, under the
heading "Concessions Won By the Developers," deals with rent
deferral. The rent deferral was an integral part of the transaction
and leads directly to Air Canada's consenting to the arrangement.
By rent deferral, I mean that the government agreed to reduce the
rentai for each of the first three years of the ground lease by
$11 million per year. This was not a gift to either Air Canada or
to the developers, as the Liberals would like us to believe. It was
rent deferred, not forgiven. It had to be paid back. The terms
were that it would be paid back over 10 years, starting in year
four with interest at the rate of 2.5 per cent above prime.
You will not find any reference in the minority report to the
deferred rent having to be paid back by the developers. In fact,
by not referring to the fact that this money was to be paid back,
the writers of the minority report conclude that "the agreement
was not reached on wholly commercial terms." Honourable
senators, this is not only an omission, it is more serious than that.
This is a deliberate misrepresentation.
In referring to the Pearson redevelopment project, Senator
Bryden continues:
It was even opposed by Conservative MPs in the Greater
Toronto Area.
However, he made us aware of only one. Don Blenkarn,
former Member of Parliament from Mississauga South, was his
favourite. In March 1992, before the request for proposais was
even announced, he wrote to Minister Corbeil expressing his
concern regarding the public perception of political interference
which had come to his attention. It was this kind of perception, of
course, that caused the government to be particularly cautious in
establishing the procedures and the audits that they did to ensure
that no such interference occurred.
You may wonder why I consider this worthy of mention. I
suppose I do so for two reasons: first. because it was in the
evidence. and we followed nothing but the evidence: and.

second, because I am becoming amused at Senator Bryden's
desperate search for anything which might help him. Although
Mr. Blenkarn would not have been privy to these steps and the
eventual transaction, his letter is cited not less than four times in
the minority report. As a matter of fact, his letter, literally, is the
first paragraph of the minority report.
While I am in a storytelling mood, perhaps the most
remarkable quote is that of one Lawrence Mitoff, who apparently
wrote a letter to his local member on October 2, 1993. We had
never heard of Mr. Mitoff. He was not mentioned at the hearing,
nor was his letter found in any departmental file. It would appear
that a copy of his letter found its way into Mr. Nixon's file. There
is no indication of how it got there or whether it was actually sent
to anyone else. It is in the Liberal minority report.
It appears that Mr. Mitoff, a Mississauga resident, was so
concerned about giving Tory hacks Canada's only profitable
airport that he resigned from the Conservative Party. In a fit of
pique, he returned his PC Canada Fund card. He was concerned
about the construction of a runway near his home. It had nothing
to do with the terminals at all, but his letter guaranteed him a
place in a minority report. As Andy Warhol said, "Everybody
will be famous for 15 minutes." We will miss him!
Let me digress for a minute. Many of you will remember that
in the Senate on March 2. 1995. Senator Lynch-Staunton. Senator
Pierre Claude Nolin and myself asked the Leader of the
Government in the Senate essentially the same question. The
question was: Why the delay? The question is as follows:
Is there any impediment whatsoever respecting the
immediate redevelopment of the Pearson airport?

Mr. Young is responsible for the delay. For more than a year,
he has been living off the phoney story that Pearson could
not be developed until the government reached a settlement
with the companies who were awarded the contract with the
Tories in 1993. There was no truth to the claim that a
settlement was needed - and yesterday Mr. Young proved
that he was misleading everybody.
While we are at it, also unbeknownst to our committee, in
March of 1995, the Pearson airport general manager undertook a
report on the safety system of the airport. Not surprisingly, this
report was only disclosed a month ago on January 4, again while
the Senate was recessed. It seems that the current problems are
not limited to Terminal 1. The resulting report identifies over
50 specific areas of concem.
Contrast this with where we would have been today,
February 1, had the contracts not been cancelled. During the first
two- and three-year period, the $100 million quick-start first
phase to correct life and safety deficiencies would have been
completed and a new Rapidair facility for Air Canada would
have been built. As well, a $254 million renovation would be
well advanced, resulting in the completion of Terminal 2
renovations, a Terminal 1 transborder stage, and the construction
of a new parking structure and administration building - ail this
accomplished without spending a penny of the taxpayers' dollars
and with the ownership of the terminals remaining in government
hands.
Again, on December 13. speaking at his press conference
about the development, Senator Bryden stated:

The written reply we received some weeks later from the
government was brief. It stated:

It was also opposed by the then Leader of the Opposition in
the House of Commons, Jean Chrétien.

The transfer of control to this non-profit airport authority
and the subsequent redevelopment cannot proceed until Bill
C-22 is finally passed into law.

In retrospect, I tend to agree, but there are questions to be asked.

However, two months ago - in fact, while we were on a
recess - on Tuesday, December 19, Transport Minister Doug
Young announced that a financial agreement to transfer the
airport from federal to local control had been reached. Ah, the
road to Damascus! Saul of Transport!
However, both parties refused to release details of the financial
agreement that was reached for the 60-year lease that will be
signed. Mr. Valo, who is the chairman of the Greater Toronto
Airports Authority, did shed some light on the situation. He said:
This terminal concept will establish Pearson as the global
standard for airport comfort, convenience and efficiency.
He estimated the cost at $2 billion and projected its completion
within 20 years, noting that the development would be related to
demand. That is the year 2016. So much lor staying ahead of the
demand. Some of us might not even be around.
The significance of this was not lost on The Globe and Mail.
The day following Mr. Valo's announcemient. on December 20.

Terence Corcoran wrote:

1Senaior

NacDonakl

I

On March 12, 1992, during Question Period, Mr. Chrétien
asked several questions. First, he asked the Minister of Transport
this question:
The government has announced that it is rushing ahead with
plans to privatize Terminals 1 and 2 at Pearson airport an
airport that makes $100 million profit every year... Why
does he want to give $100 million of profit to the private
sector at the expense of the Govemment?
To be charitable, Mr. Chrétien was a victim of lousy research.
However, the foundation of misinformation was laid. The
Pearson airport never ever made $100 million in profit in any
year. let alone every year.
The airport's financial statements for the two years ending
1993-94 present a complete analysis of the airport's profitability.
It is important to note that the statements provided present the
airport's profit from all operations. including landing fees,
terminals. runways. cargo operations - everything. As shown.
the airport's reported profitability fromn all those operations is in
the $40 million to $50 million range in those two vears.

February 1, 1996

February 1, 1996

SENATE DEBATES

SENATE DEBATES

During that period, Transport Canada issued a request for
proposais to construct new runways at the airport, and to operate
the airfield for a term of 25 years. In that particular request for
proposais, Transport Canada indicated that it was earning
$32 million per year in profit on the airfield. Assuming this, it
follows that the remaining businesses at the airport, including
Terminal 3 and the operations of Terminais i and 2, generated
some $10 million to $20 million in profit, which would bring it
up to the $50 million mark. In other words, the Crown's profit
from all non-airfield operations, including Terminal 3, is less
than the ground rent which the developers would have paid in
respect to Terminais 1 and 2 alone. Aiso essential to this analysis
is the understanding that under the Pearson agreements, the
Crown would not have been required to expend a single dollar
for capital improvements, while at the same time the developer
was obliged to invest hundreds of millions of dollars. It follows
that, under the Pearson agreement, the profits represented by the
ground rent would have gone straight to the Crown's bottom line.
On the other hand, given the cancellation, one must assume at
that time that the Crown would itself be obliged to spend these
moneys, and one must consider the effect of the expenditures on
the Crown's profitability. If nothing else changed and Transport
Canada would spend, on average, $100 million per annum for the
next eight years to develop Terminais 1 and 2, then instead of
earning a profit of some $10 million to $20 million in
non-airfield operations, the Crown would lose some $80 million
to $90 million per year. Accordingly, when capital costs are
considered, the Pearson agreements would have generated in
excess of $100 million more per annum to the Crown than if the
Crown were itself to operate Pearson.
Perhaps the most appropriate assessment of the Crown's return
is the report prepared for Transport Canada by Deloitte & Touche
dated August 17, 1993. According to these calculations, the net
present value of the rental payments to the Crown under the
ground lease agreements was approximately $809 million to
$900 million. That is the rental payments that the developers
would have had to pay to the Crown. If the developers defaulted
on this agreement, the government would repossess all three
terminais.
It is worth repeating Deloitte's conclusion that during the
57-year life of the Pearson agreements, the gross taxes paid to
both the federal and provincial governments by the developers
would have been approximately $3.8 billion. Said David
Broadbent, the chief government negotiator, "This was a good
deal for Canada."
Tell me, honourable senators, what in the name of heaven did
Mr. Chrétien mean when he said that the government is
giving $100 million of profit to the private sector at the expense
of the government? These were the only questions asked by
Mr. Chrétien in the House. On the Pearson airport matter, he was
silent between March 2, 1993 and early October 1993 when he
was out on the campaign trail.
In the test used generally by public servants, that is, were the
dollar returns for the Crown in this proposed transaction better
than the next best alternative, in the case of the Pearson deal the
answer was demonstrably "Yes."

2589

2589

Throughout the minority report, the questions and concerns of
the Treasury Board are raised as if they provide evidence that the
public servants themselves were opposed to the Pearson
transactions. As honourable senators know, it is the task of
Treasury Board officiais to question every aspect of a proposed
government transaction. They are the naysayers. They must point
out all possible risks for the govemment. This, of course, is of
great use to the negotiators who can then address the issues. In
fact, that is exactly what happened in the Pearson transaction.
The issues raised by the Treasury Board were resolved to the
satisfaction of the secretariat and the board itself.
Proof of this came later in the unqualified endorsement of
Mr. Mel Cappe, the senior Treasury Board participant in the file,
who testified as to the integrity of the process. This unqualified
endorsement does not appear in the Liberal minority report.
Senator Bryden, at his press conference, and the Liberals in the
minority report, attempt to make a great deai out of the contracts
entered into between Pearson Development Corporation and the
corporations which formed the partnership. These contracts were
to be for services rendered both during and after development of
the terminais. It is argued that these contracts somehow detract
from the profit to the Crown, or are simply a sham to syphon off
money from the airport to member partners.
Of course, what we are not told is that these agreements must
be on commercial terms and conditions, and that they do not
detract from the return to the Crown. Also, the members of the
partnership are some of the most knowledgeable corporations in
Canada regarding construction, design, management, et cetera.
The government aiso had the right to review these contracts.
However, again, the most flagrant misrepresentation about any of
these contracts by the Liberals is the same one they make about
the rate of return. If what they are now arguing in the litigation
before the courts of Ontario is correct, there will be no money to
pay any of these contracts.
Witnesses disagreed, among other things, about some of the
critical standards that need to be applied, including the limits, if
any, which apply to govemments during election periods. Senator
Stanbury will remember the animated discussion about this in a
hearing held by the Legal and Constitutional Affairs Committee.
These issues need to be reasonably considered and resolved if
a credible judgment is to be made of the Pearson deal. The
committee heard from a panel of three university professors. The
panellists disagreed with one another, with the panellist selected
by the authors of the minority report standing alone in his
contention that, during an election period, a government is
obliged to confine itself to routine decisions, and that the final
sign-off of the Pearson agreements was not routine.
According to the minority report, the two other panellists were
reluctant to endorse these opinions. This is not so. The truth is
that they disagreed with these opinions and provided the
committee with extensive argumentation in support of their
views. One searches the pages of the minority report in vain for
any indication that there was serious disagreement. or that
arguments were made which had been considered on their merits.

Instead. the minority report provides lengthy quotations
virtually an entire page - from its favourite expert.

-

In contrast, the panellists whose thinking does not pass the
tests of the Liberal political correctness are virtually banished
from the pages of their report. Their views on the issue of
constitutional conventions are dismissed in a single line. There is
no analysis of the respective merits of the arguments presented to
the committee. Indeed, there is no analysis at all: there is merely
careful selection.
Another of those professors, Andrew Heard, while suggesting
prudence. put the matter in perspective. He said:
So if one concedes, for the sake of argument. that a cabinet
must avoid implementing certain decisions during an
election campaign period, then the sorts of decisions that are
prohibited are important and irrevocable. And as we see
with Bill C-22, the Pearson contracts are not irrevocable.
One can debate the means chosen to revoke the contracts,
but a successor government and Parliament clearly has the
power to revoke those contracts.
He said further:
In conclusion, I would argue that the signing of the
Pearson Airport Agreements did not contravene any
constitutional conventions. whether those conventions are
founded upon precedent or upon constitutional principle.
Now. colleagues, it is time to review the bidding.
In March 1992. the government was ready to announce the
request for proposal, RFP, to redevelop the two terminals. This
RFP had been drafted with the assistance of outside consultants
over a 17-month period during which the government had
requested input from interested parties. The evaluation criteria
and process were drawn up. Officials from the Departments of
Transport and Justice and from the National Transport Agency
became involved. The independent investment firm of
Richardson Greenshields provided professional financial counsel.
Price Waterhouse was put in charge of security procedures for
the bidding process and reviewed evaluation criteria and
methodology. The auditing firm of Raymond Chabot Martin
Paré oversaw the process to verify that the terms of reference had
been respected. Deloitte & Touche were retained to evaluate fair
rates of retum for the developer and the government.
The government's evaluation committee worked through July
and August of 1992 comparing the bids proposed by the two
proponents, Claridge and Paxport. The evaluation committee
submitted its unanimous report to the Deputy Minister of
Transport in October, and the draft report of the audit group was
submitted shortly thereafter. Both bids were considered
acceptable. but the Paxport proposal was judged the best overall
acceptable proposa]. It scored the highest on business
development and operational plans.
In December 1992. the government announced that
negotiations would begin with Paxport to enter into a contract to
redevelop and operate Terminals I and 2. Shortly thereafter,
Paxport and Claridge came together in a single company to be
known as the TI T2 Limited Partniership, of which the Pearson
1Senator MacDonald

I

Development Corporation, PDC. was to be the managing partner.
The rationale for this merger was that there were business
synergies existing between the two developers since the Claridge
group was already the owner-operator of Terminal 3. while the
Paxport proposal was the more advantageous to the Crown. The
merger with Claridge gave the government financial reassurance.
The financial negotiations proceeded through the early months
of 1993. By June, a non-binding letter of intent was signed on the
federal government's behalf by the Deputy Minister of Transport
and the Pearson Development Corporation. By early July, the
govemment and the Pearson Development Corporation were so
deeply committed to the redevelopment contract that they agreed
that October 7, 1993 would be the closing date. That is, in July
they agreed that October 7 would be the closing date. On
August 27, 1993, following Treasury Board approval, an Order in
Council authorized the Minister of Transport to enter into the
lease and redevelopment agreements with the partnership.
From that date, August 27, until October 7 - and I emphasize
this - the only activity on the Pearson file was by public
servants. There were no further changes requiring approval from
Treasury Board, nor was there any ministerial involvement or
intervention. From a political aspect, from the view of cabinet, it
was a donc deal.
On September 8, Prime Minister Campbell announced
dissolution of Parliament for an election to be held on
October 25. Still working toward the agreed October 7 closing of
the deal, lawyers for both parties drew up the final legal
documents. Material documents were signed by the parties on
October 3 and put into escrow until October 7. This, you will
remember, was the closing date established three months earlier.
During that election campaign, highly partisan rhetoric,
amplified in the media, provoked public opposition to the
Pearson redevelopment contract, even though the transaction had
survived a most elaborate and thorough bidding process.
Encouraged by politicians and interest groups, the media
suddenly started advancing claims of cronyism and patronage
concerning the Pearson transaction. It made for banner headlines.
Oddly enough, no mention was made of the fact that Claridge,
which ended up with two-thirds ownership of the partnership,
had very strong Liberal connections.
On October 5, Mr. Chrétien made the project an election issue,
stating that the contract would be reviewed and. if necessary,
cancelled, should he become Prime Minister. On October 7.
Prime Minister Campbell was asked to confirm that the
documents should be released from escrow, thus allowing the
long-awaited redevelopment to proceed. She did so.
There was no doubt whatsoever as to the govemment's legal
and constitutional right to proceed. Moreover, Prime Minister
Campbell had been assured in writing several weeks previously
by some of Canada's most senior public servants that the
selection of the developer had followed "an entirely transparent"
competitive process. In a memorandum to her, which is now part
of the public record. these officials added that, .we can assure
vou that officials have reviewed the file and confirm that due
process has been followed at every stage.-

Februarv 1, 1996
February

1,

1996

SENATE DEBATES
EAE
SNT

Following the election, but before the ministry was sworn in, a cabinet confidence. and less excessive application of
Mr. Chrétien commissioned the Nixon review which was solicitor-client privilege.
delivered on schedule in a document now proven to be riddled
Our parliamentary system is heavily weighted in favour of the
with false allegations and innuendo. Nonetheless, Mr. Nixon
recommended cancellation of the contract, which Mr. Chrétien executive. Together, the cabinet and the bureaucracy are a
did indeed cancel on December 3, four days later. The Financial formidable opponent to anyone, be they individuals or
parliamentary committees seeking to examine issues of public
Post headline after the release of our report read, "P.M.'s
Cancellation of Pearson Deal was a Capricious, Ill-advised policy, particularly controversial ones like Pearson airport.
Parliamentary committees offer an effective counterbalance to
Decision." The article read:
these forces provided they are given their due place.
Were there provisions in the Pearson agreement that it was Unfortunately, this is not now the case. There must be a better
reasonable to believe could be improved? If so, a way.
responsible course of action would be to initiate talks with
By making the ground rules governing the powers and
the developers to explore possible gains and tradeoffs, but
prerogatives of parliamentary committees more clearly
not necessarily wholesale cancellation.
understood and accepted, we increase their legitimacy. By
might have misread increasing their legitimacy, we encourage their use. By
While I agree with the author, I think he
the political mood of that day. An unpopular government was encouraging their use, we make govemment more accountable.
going down to defeat and Mr. Chrétien, who is nothing if not a Surely this is good for the health of our political system and its
politician, could taste the blood. The Pearson saga had taken on a political institutions.
life of its own. Mr. Chrétien was driven to keep a promise made
I am disappointed that my Liberal colleagues, for reasons best
during the heat of an election campaign, regardless of the known to themselves, refused to allow the Kirby-MacDonald
consequences which ensued, and without regard to public policy. appendix to be the unanimous report of the committee. As
He could be likened to the man sitting in a cafe during the French members of a chamber too often described as one of sober
Revolution. When a howling mob rushed by the window, he second thought, it is our responsibility to reach reasonable
jumped and told his friend, "I have to catch up with them. I am conclusions about these reports. If we acquiesce in the view that
their leader."
the two reports of the Pearson committee are merely contrasting
expressions of partisan emotion without scrupulous regard to the
-(1640)
evidence, we give direct support to those who might question
why this chamber exists.
Senator Grafstein: What election was that?
Senator MacDonald: The French Revolution.
Senator Grafstein: Oh, it was not an election?
Senator MacDonald: The public servants who had worked
over so many years to find a workable solution to this Pearson
mess had every right to be proud of the resuIts they had achieved.
I wish to thank the Committees Branch of the Senate who
worked tirelessly with us over the four-month summer period. I
thank ail committee members for the courtesies extended to me
as chairman. I reserve a special commendation for the counsel to
the committee, John Nelligan, Q.C., whose extensive legal
background and goodwill kept us aIl focused and, in many cases,
kept us composed. I commend the Library of Parliament, whose
draughtsmanship meticulously recorded the evidence we heard,
omitting none, and my Conservative colleagues who spent hours
and days analyzing the evidence and making additions and
corrections where necessary.
I offer a special thanks to my colleague and deputy chairman,
Senator Michael Kirby. He alone on our committee has had the
greatest experience in government at the highest levels, and he
had the conviction and the courage to join with me in writing the
appendix underlining the difficulties we experienced in obtaining
documents and timely information. In our appendix, we
recommended more precise rules to assist parliamentary
committees, accountability in the area of document production. a
less far-reaching definition of what does and does not constitute

Hon. Michael Kirby: Honourable senators, I rise in part to
respond to some of the comments Senator MacDonald has just
made, and in part to give you an overview of some of the key
findings of the Pearson inquiry from the perspective of my
colleagues and myself.
I wish to thank Senator MacDonald for the very good job he
did as chairman of the committee, and for the leadership he
provided to the committee during what was a very difficult time
for ail of us, but I think particularly for him.
As he pointed out in his remarks, the committee had a very
difficult task to do. Some 45,000 pages of documents were given
to the committee in a relatively short period of time. We had to
digest those documents and use them to prepare for
cross-examining a witness the following morning. We heard, as
Senator MacDonald pointed out, some 65 witnesses covering a
period of over 130 hours of testimony.
Yet, through ail of the tension that frequently surrounded the
committee, Senator MacDonald kept affairs under control, kept
things moving along, and kept the committee to its fundamental
task, which was attempting to determine the facts that lay behind
the decision to proceed with the privatization of Pearson airport,
and subsequently the negotiations and ultimately the signing of
the contract. In handling this difficult and often emotionally
charged task, I wish to say on behalf of myself personally, as
deputy chairman, and in particular the rest of the Liberals who
were with me on the committee. that we think Senator
MacDonald did a superb job.

Having said that, I wish I could say the sanie thing for his
speech of a few minutes ago. While I think he is obviously an
excellent chairman, he did a very strange thing in his remarks. I
have never heard anyone stand up and give a speech explaining a
report. in which they entirely ignore their report. Senator
MacDonald said that he would focus on the minority report. and
I assume he did so because he knows as well as I do that the
majority report is largely indefensible.
He did several other interesting things in his speech. In spite of
the frequency with which former prime minister Brian
Mulroney's name, memoranda to him, statements by him, et
cetera, featured in the committee hearings and, indeed, in the
minority report, it is interesting that in spending an hour, as he
did, commenting on the minority report, at no point in his
comments did Senator MacDonald make any attempt to refute
anything that the minority report says about the role and
activities of the former prime minister in the ultimate negotiation
and awarding of the contract. I will come to the details of
Mr. Mulroney's involvement in a few minutes. However. since
he attempted to deal with such very minor issues as the rent
deferral issue. I must assume the fact that Senator MacDonald
refused, or neglected, to comment on the issue of the role of the
former prime minister, as portrayed by the Liberals in the
minority report, implies that he obviously agrees with our
assessment of the role of the former prime minister.
One statement that Senator MacDonald made is categorically
false, but I will give him credit for the fact that he may believe it
to be truc. However, early in his remarks, he made the
observation that the report of the minority members of the
committee was "overseen" by the Prime Minister's Office. In
order that there is absolutely no confusion on this issue. and to be
absolutely categorical about it for the record, absolutely no one
in the Prime Minister's Office. or associated with the Prime
Minister - in fact, no one other than the Liberal members of the
committee and our own staffers saw what was in the minority
report until that report had been completely signed off and sent to
the printer. I wish to clarify that for the record. I assume that
Senator MacDonald may well have believed what he said, but
when he claimed that the report was overseen by the Prime
Minister's Office. that statement is categorically false.

Honourable senators, let me place on the record some facts as
they were presented by witnesses to the committee. I will deal
first with an issue which Senator MacDonald raised in his
comments. One of the reasons why the Liberal members of the
committee concluded that the Pearson agreement was a bad
business deal for Canadians - and Senator MacDonald is right
that we stressed this fact - was that developers on this project
would have received a pre-tax rate of return of 23.6 per cent. The
majority report says that the figure should have been 14 per cent,
but they fail to point out that the 14 per cent calculation was
based on a model for assessing the rate of return which model
was provided by the developers themselves. On that basis alone,
it has a significant lack of credibility.
Far more important than that, however, is the fact that the rate
of return - whether one takes the 23 per cent or even Senator
MacDonald's 14 per cent - does not tell the whole story. Not
included are a significant number of side deals. side agreements,
from which the various members of the Paxport and ultimately
MergeCo consortium were going to enrich themselves non-arm's length construction contracts. management contracts,
engineering contracts, consulting contracts. All would have
earned consortium members millions of dollars above the money
they would have made from the redevelopment and management
of Terminals I and 2. All of these additional side deals and side
contracts would have earned the participants in the consortium
millions of dollars above the rate of return that was calculated
and presented to the committee by several witnesses.
It is an interesting observation, honourable senators, that the
mention of these side contracts and side deals appears absolutely
nowhere in the majority report.
Since some honourable senators did not spend the summer
listening to these witnesses, let me tell you about two or three of
these side contracts just to give you the flavour of the package of
proposals which had been put together in this regard.

Let me then turn to many of the facts surrounding the minority
report and, indeed, surrounding the hearings and the majority
report as well. which. in the course of presenting his analysis of a
few minutes ago, Senator MacDonald chose to carefully ignore.

We learned from witnesses before the committee that there
was an agreement to pay $3.5 million to a company headed by
Don Matthews. the head of the Paxport consortium, with no
obligation whatsoever for Mr. Matthews to provide any specific
goods or services under the terms of that contract. It was
essentially a one-paragraph, $3.5-million, 10-year contract with
no specification whatsoever as to Mr. Matthews' obligations
while earning that sum.

While it is true that we can argue about the politics of this
issue, and we can even argue about some of the judgments that
were made both by the Conservative government and, as Senator
MacDonald has done, by the Liberal government after it was
elected. it seems to me we cannot argue about the facts as they
were presented to the committee. I should like to mention a
number of these facts to you today. in part because they were so
carefully ignored by Senator MacDonald in his hour-long speech
which ended just a few minutes ago. Second, they were
completely and utterly ignored by the Conservative members of
the committee in their majority report.

It is an interesting observation, honourable senators, that such
a fact is not in the majority report. Neither does the majority
report include the fact that there was another contract. this one
for $2 million, payable to Fred Doucet, a prominent Ottawa
lobbyist at that time with close and long connections to Prime
Minister Mulroney, having served in the Prime Minister's Office
for a number of years. This $2-million fee was contingent on the
Pearson airport redevelopment contract being signed. Again. it
just so happens - inadvertently, I am sure - that the
Conservatives did not bother to mention this particular contract
in their report.

1Senatoi

Kirby

February 1, 1996

Februarv 1, 1996

2593

SENATE DEBATES

2593

SENATE DEBATES

negotiate a contract and uiîimately to the actuai negotiation of
the contract.

There are a number of other sirnilar contracts including one for
a post-employrnent package to a past-president of Paxport for
four years' work ai a surn which many of us regarded as
exorbitant. This, 100, was carefuiiy and absoluteiy ignored by
both Senator MacDonald a few minutes ago and in the
Conservative report as tabied in the Senate a few months ago.

10

Senator Lynch-Staunton: Recause they have nothing to do
with the Pearson agreemnents.

First, the request for proposais was issued at a lime when the
redeveiopment of the terminais at Pearson airport was neither
wanted nor needed by those people who best understood the
industry and the problems at Pearson. The committee heard
evidence that, in 1992, passenger levels were actuaiiy on their
way down aI Pearson airport, and that the recession meant
substantial upheaval in an already troubied airline industry.

Senator Kirby: Where was ail this rnoney to corne from to
pay these amounts?
Senator Lynch-Staunton: Irrelevant.
Senator Kirby: The answer is, unfortunately, that these
outrageous payments were to corne ultimateiy frorn money
provided by the air-travelling public. Ultirnately, Canadian air
passengers, particulariy those passing through Pearson, would
have 10 pay increased charges for everything in order 10 make
these payments.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: Where is that in the testimony?
Senator Kirby: Weil. 1 arn absoiuteiy deiighted.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: You are improvising!

Again, since I do not really want to repeat the enlire report, let
me simply illustrate my point 10 honourable senators by giving
two or three exampies of these fiaws.

One of the witnesses before the commiltee was a former
president of the Air Transport Association of Canada, who
testified and gave documents in evidence t0 show cieariy that the
Air Transport Association of Canada was strongly opposed 10 the
redevelopment. In fact, they urged the govemnment not 10 proceed
t0 the redevelopment of the airport as a whole, specifically
Terminal 1, until a clear need had been estabiished.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: What did they say?
Senator Kirby: You are doing a far better job today than you
normaliy do, Senator Lynch-Staunton.

Senator Kirby: Senator Lynch-Staunton, this is one of those
rare occasions when you are doing a superb job of playing the
straight man. 1 realize you find that difficuit to do but 1 thank you
for the prompt. The fact of the malter is that one of the
documents which was put in evidence before the commillee was
a Transport Canada report written by the Transport Canada
officiais who Senator MacDonald says - and I agree - did such
an excellent job.

Senator Lynch-Staunton: Quote the press. 1 arn trying
you.

One of these Transport Canada officiais, in a letter 10 the
Deputy Minister of Transport of the day. surnmarized his views
of the Paxport proposais in the foliowing way.

Senator Kirby: Air Canada strongiy opposed the
redeveiopment of Pearson airport.

10

Senator Lynch-Staunton: The Paxport proposai has nothing
do with the agreement. That is not fair.
Senator Kirby: That officiai said:
The Paxport proposai as it now stands would certainly leave
the Crown belter off financiaiiy but oniy ai a high cost 10 the
airlines and the travelling public.

Senator Lynch-Staunton has asked where the evidence is to
show that these high costs would eventuaily be absorbed by the
Canadian travelling public. That evidence appears in a variety of
places inciuding, in one illustrative exampie, the letter to the
deputy minister written by a senior officiaI of Transport and from
which I just quoted.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: Paxport did not even sign the
agreement. You are the straight man 10 Nixon.
Senator Kirby: The minority report points out the flawed
process. as described during the iengthy hearings. which led tirst
to the request for proposais and then 10 the awarding of the rigbt

10

help

Senator Kirby: You may uiîimateiy get, one day, to assume a
job on Ibis side of the house. That may take a long lime, but keep
working aI il and il may happen.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: You are reading Nixon, Volume 2.

Senator Lynch-Staunton: When?
Senator Kirby: Canadian Airlines also opposed il. The City
of Toronto went on record as opposing private sector
deveiopment. Ail Ibis was happening at a lime when the
government was contempiating proceeding wiîh requests for
proposais.
Even Claridge - who, as a resuit of the mess thal developed,
ullimately came 10 conîrol TIT2 - opposed the issuance of the
requesî for proposai, saying that il was neither needed nor
wanted by the industry.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: When? Whal year?
Senator Stewart: Read the articles.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: Read the delails, like Nixon.
Senator Kirby: The fact is that there was only one private
sector advocate of Pearson redevelopment and that was the
Paxpori consortium. headed by Don Matthews. which was the
ultimate winner of the proposai.

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators. I regret to
interrupt Senator Kirby but his time has expired. Is leave granted
for him to continue?

Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: Nixon, Volume 2.
Senator Kirby: Given the amount of interruptions, this may
be a story with many more volumes than two.
The request for proposais also contained a number of specific
abnormalities and unusual things. Again, because it will take too
long to give the complete litany, let me give honourable senators
two or three examples.
First, there was no expression of interest stage despite the fact
that the public servants - to whom Senator MacDonald
correctly paid tribute - recommended that an expression of
interest stage ought to be undertaken with respect to this
development because of the size of the project.
)

',

1700)

It is an interesting observation that Paxport. the ultimate
winners of the contract, lobbied strenuously for a one-stage
proposai with no expression of interest stage. It is interesting
how that turned out to be what happened.

On the basis of that process. honourable senators. it was
self-evident to the Liberal members of the committee that it was
absolutely true and indeed a factual statement to say that the RFP
process itself was seriously flawed. These flaws in the process
continued beyond the issuance of the RFP. They continued into
the negotiation stage of the contract itself.
Again. let me illustrate the flaws in the negotiation process by
showing you two or three examples of some of the things that
happened during the process.
One of the things which surprised the members of the
committee - and I made this observation a few minutes ago was carefully ignored by Senator MacDonald in his long speech
and by the Conservative members of the committee in their
report. One of the things which did not appear at all was the
unusual pressure from the highest levels of political office to get
this agreement done, and get it done extraordinarily quickly.
Let me give you one of the examples. The Clerk of the Privy
Council. in his own words, held weekly meetings to keep the
Prime Minister informed of what was going on. Indeed, in the
words of the public service witnesses, the purpose of these
weekly meetings was to keep the deal on track. The clerk, in
turn, briefed the Prime Minister directly on the status of
negotiations at regular intervals.

As an illustrative example, the request for proposais contained
a 90-day response period in spite of the fact that the
government's own consultants. Price Waterhouse, recommended
a 60-day response period. An interesting observation is also
carefully ignored in the majority report that - surprise, surprise
- Paxport recommended a 90-day response period for their
request for proposais.

In spite of the fact that the Prime Minister was being advised
on a regular basis of the numerous concerns of Transport Canada
officiais and others in the industry about proceeding with such an
initiative at this time and proceeding with it so quickly, the
pressure from the Prime Minister, his office and his senior
officials to proceed quickly to get the deal donc continued
unabated. It is interesting that none of that is mentioned in the
Conservative report.

As a third illustrative example, the response date for the
request for proposais was five months ahead of the date - that is
to say. in advance of the date - set for the report of an
environmental assessment review panel on the development of
additionai runways at Pearson. The decision to put out the RFP
before the panel reported led two members of the environmental
assessment review panel to threaten publicly to resign. Why did
they do that? They did so because a previous minister of
transport had said that no redevelopment of the Pearson terminais
would take place until after the environmental assessment review
panel had reported.

In his remarks, Senator MacDonald made an observation that I
have had some experience over the years in senior positions in
government. When I heard about this role of the Prime Minister
from people like the Clerk of the Privy Council when he
appeared as a witness before the committee, I expressed
astonishment about what I felt was a truly unbelievable level of
interest by the Prime Minister in one simple business transaction,
which is the way it was attempted to be portrayed by
Conservative members of the committee.

Senator Lynch-Staunton: Which minister?
Senator Kirby: Honourable senators, we have 130 hours and
literally thousands of pages of evidence that further illustrate the
abnormalities involved in this process that ultimately led to the
calling of an RFP. The fact of the matter is that the advice that
the government followed was not the advice of the public
servants Senator MacDonald talked about. It was not the advice
of professional firms such as Price Waterhouse and others. The
advice that the government followed in deciding the process it
would use to ultimately issue the RFP and then ultimately award
the contract was the advice given by Paxport, the ultimate
contract winners. not by the independent public servants we
talked about earlier today.

The chief negotiator - again referred to by Senator
MacDonald a few moments ago - David Broadbent, who had
considerable experience in senior positions in government since
he had been a former federal deputy minister, said in response to
a question that he could not think of a "comparable situationwhen asked about this level of interest by the Prime Minister in
what was essentially a business transaction. Yet, Prime Minister
Mulroney's role in pushing this deal through to completion as
quickly as possible and before he left office is carefully and
completely ignored in the majority report and in Senator
MacDonald's speech. In the careful ignoring of this element of
history, which I assume is the basis of Senator MacDonald's
speech. he clearly agrees with our summary of these events since
he attempted to pick up every other point in our report with
which he disagreed.

February

1, 1996

SENATE DEBATES

Ultimately, and in spite of ail this pressure from the Prime
Minister, they could not get the agreement done in time.
Mr. Glen Shortliffe, who had been Clerk of the Privy Council
under Prime Minister Mulroney, said before the committee that
"Eventually, even Mr. Mulroney had to accept the fact that he
could not get the deal pushed through" before he left office.
The question that those of us on our side of the committee
asked ourselves repeatedly was this: Why was the Prime Minister
trying to push anything through? What was so crucial and so
incredibly important that the head of the country should focus all
his energy, time and attention on it and be determined to try to
get it pushed through? "Pushed through" are not my words; they
are the words of his own Clerk of the Privy Council. Why was
the Prime Minister so determined do get this deal pushed through
before he left office?
The answer obviously was not that the Paxport offer was too
good to refuse. Paxport, at the time they were judged to have the
best overall proposai, had no experience in operating or
redeveloping airports.
I would add parenthetically that the president of Paxport made
an observation at one point. When Donald Matthews' son was
asked what be knew about airports, his answer was that he did
not know very much at the time.
In addition, there were a number of reports. The Edlund report
was prepared for Industry Canada, and the Gauvin report, which
was prepared for Transport Canada, expressed a lot of concern
about the Paxport proposai and other elements of the negotiations
as they evolved. They were specifically concerned about the
financeability of the proposai, the lack of equity in the Paxport
proposai from the Paxport partners themselves, and the overly
optimistic revenue forecasts contained in the Paxport proposai.
All of these concerns, expressed early on in the negotiations by
public servants, were carefully ignored by those who had been
told to get the deal done. and were carefully ignored by the
Conservatives in their report and by Senator MacDonald in his
speech. All of these concerns ultimately became true.
What ultimately happened, as you all know from the
newspapers and the history of this event, is that the financeability
of the proposai from Paxport's point of view became impossible.
Paxport ultimately had to merge with Claridge to form a new
company calied "MergeCo" in order to finance the project. This
happened virtually immediately after the agreement was done. I
will come to the timing on that issue in a moment, because that is
the important issue.
It is interesting that, even before Paxport had been selected as
having the best overall proposai, Prime Minister Mulroney
received a memorandum from his Clerk of the Privy Council
informing him of failings in the Paxport proposai. This
memorandum told the Prime Minister that there was no need to
this, by the way, was 1993 - and
start construction until 1996
that the local airport authority option was still viable.
Senator MacDonald made the point a few minutes ago that the
local airport authority option was proceeded with by the current

2595

government. In 1992-1993, Air Canada was concerned about the
costs and had asked that the development be postponed.
The memorandum from the Clerk of the Privy Council to
Prime Minister Mulroney ended by saying that, unless some clear
concessions were made, "Paxport wili have little incentive to
complete the project on terms acceptable to the federal
govemment."
Indeed, at the bottom of that memorandum, Mr. Shortliffe
added a note in his own handwriting saying that there was very
little incentive for the bidders to get together, and that he was
looking into "bid compensation." In other words, he was looking
for a way to compensate the bidders for the costs that they had
incurred in going to the trouble of preparing a response to the
request for proposais.
This memorandum cited the weaknesses of the Paxport
proposai referencing the possibility of getting the bidders
together. It was sent to the Prime Minister three weeks in
advance of Paxport having been announced as having the best
overall proposai. In other words, well before the winner had been
announced, weil before Paxport had been awarded the right to
negotiate a contract, the Prime Minister and his senior public
servant, the Clerk of the Privy Council, were discussing the
possibility of having the two bidders get together in order to
solve the financial problems that public servants were concerned
would arise with the Paxport proposai.
During this same period Mr. Mulroney, as was put in evidence
by his own Clerk of the Privy Council, asked the clerk to try to
arrange things with respect to the Pearson issue "so that
everybody could get a piece of the action." That is an interesting
observation for a prime minister in looking at a business deal of
this nature.
Another interesting observation is that neither Senator
MacDonald nor the Conservative majority report mention this
evidence at all. In his opening comments a few moments ago,
Senator MacDonald accused the Liberals of having selected
facts. It is interesting that there is not one single comment related
to the role of Prime Minister Mulroney as expressed, not by us,
but in the words of the person who knew the Prime Minister best
at the time, that is, the Clerk of the Privy Council. None of this
evidence entered the Conservative report or, indeed, Senator
MacDonald's comments. If he is to accuse us of having used
selective facts, then one should ask whether his report bas not
aiso used selective facts quite extensively. After ail, this was
looking at a transaction of the Mulroney government initially
and, albeit briefly, the Campbell government at the end. Whole
references to the Mulroney period were carefully omitted by the
Conservatives in the writing of their report.
If we look at the remainder of the negotiation process, we find
that the government did not make the money that it was supposed
to make. The money it was supposed to make was the primary
reason the contract was awarded to Paxport in the first place.
Return to the government was the main factor in the analysis of
the proposais as done by public servants. Despite the fact that
this is what got them the proposai in the first place, in the course

of the analysis the government was forced twice to reduce its rate
of return in order to come up with a proposai with which Paxport
could live. They agreed. for example. to a rent deferral of'
15 per cent in order to allow the cash-strapped airline industry to
be able to afford the higher rents upon which the Paxport
proposai was based.
Parenthetically. 1 must say something to Senator MacDonald
about Senator Bryden's very cicar press release. 1 realize there is
a danger in members on our side using technical language which
members opposite have difficulty understanding. Rent deferral
was referred to in that press release. Most people who understand
the English language understand that a rent deferral does flot
mean a rent cancellation. It means a deferral to be paid at somne
time in the future. Therefore. the honourable senator's
accusations regarding Senator Bryden having said one thing
when he referred to rent deferrai are false. 1 think Senator
MacDonald ought, at Icast, to accept the fact that he specifically
used the word "def'erral" on the assumption. obviously false. that
senators opposite would understand what the word "deferral"
means. From now on we will try to use words which have a tew
less syllables.
In spite of the fact that this contract was awarded to Paxport
because of its high rate of return to the government. we flot only
had a rent deferral of $33 million. we had a far more serious
concession in the course of these negotiations, namely, the
federal government was to be prevented from developing any
airport facility within a 75-kilometre radius of Pearson until
traffic volume at Pearson airport reached 33 million passengers.
Otherwise, the goverfiment would have to pay a penalty fée to
the Paxport consortium.
I ask honourable senators whether they think that granting
such a monopoly status to this consortium is not a significant
concession for which they will find, as they go through the
negotiations that the govemment received essentially nothing in
return.
Honourable senators. 1 could detail a number of the other
concessions that were made in the negotiations; concessions
which clearly hurt the revenue position of the govemment and
which clearly helped substantially the consortium. They did s0 in
such a way that. in the end, they completely undercut the primary
reason Paxport was awarded the contract in the first place,
namely. because they were to provide such a high rate of retum
to the govemment.
To give an illustrious example. 1 should like to read from an
update on these negotiations written by public servants to the
assistant deputy minister of finance. These words are not taken
out of context. They ref]ect the flavour of what this
memorandum and a whole bunch of others said.
Transport officiais have heen working at a furlous pace to
mect the goal of signing these agreements by the end of
May...
Parenthetically. 1 should tell honourable senators that the
significance oi "the end of' May"' finaIlv becamie clear when the
Clerk of' the Prl\ y COunIcil told us that Prime Minister Muli-oney
wanted the contracîs sicned beinie the Conservative leadership

1Senaini

Kiihx,

convention. The pressure to get if done by May 31 was to meet
the timing of Prime Minister Mulroney.
1 will continue with the quotation I started earlier:
We are concerned that Pearson Development Corporation
will soon be in position to charge monopolistic fees...
Parenthetically, it is easy to demand monopolistic fees when
you control the airport for a 75-kilometre radius around Toronto,
and when no one can come in to compete with you. That is an
understandable statement. The statement goes on:
Safeguards need to be built into the ground ]case so that the
airlines cannot be hit with charges beyond those
contemplated in the original proposai...
The fact of the matter is that. ultimately, those safeguards were
not built into the final deal.
Continuing with the memorandum, it states:
Clearly if this deal stands, a communications plan should be
developed which defends the higher prices and ground
rents.
Risky projects might require a rate this high to attract
investors. however, our initial impression of the TI/T2
pro ject is that the developer hears very little risk...
Finally. honourable senators, the concluding paragraph. which
was written in the middle of May 1993, states:
Unfortunately. given the government desire to sign a deal
within two weeks. it is unlikely that Transport Canada
would be successful in negotiating a lower rate from the
developer. No doubt. Pearson Development Corporation
feels it bas an upper hand in the negotiations.
Honourable senators, 1 ask: Why would they not think they
had an upper hand? They knew the Prime Minister wanted the
deal signed betore he left office. They knew he was prepared to
give them a monopoly position. They knew ail they had to do
was wait it out and they would bear aIl the advantages in the
negotiations.
None of the evidence that 1 just put on the record was
mentioned hy Senator MacDonald. and none of it appears
anywhere at ail in the majority report.
Senator Stewart: Not even anything to, refute this.
Senator Kirby: 1 am glad Senator Stewart made that
observation. Senator MacDonald went to extraordinary lengths in
his opening remarks to say that he was not going to defend his
own report - defending the indetènsible is difficult even f'or
him. so, 1 understand why he did not try. Instead. he decided that
he would try to attack our report. It is interesting -and 1 am
glad Senator Stewart raised the point - that aIl of the points 1
just raised, which are in our report. were not mentioned by
Senator MacDonald. Therefore. honourable senators. the only
concIluSion wc can draw is that he agrees with those criticismns.
;ust as he agrees with every comment that we made about Prime
Minister MU11-oney' in the course ni our discussion.

Febarv 1 1996SN
February

1

1996

E
SENATE DEBATES

2597

In fact. we learned how public servants felt about this process.
We saw all kinds of documentary evidence attesting to the fact
that there was clearly intense political pressure to get this deal
done on time - "on time," by the way, being related to the exit
strategy of the Prime Minister. This became a sufficiently
significant issue with public servants that one Treasury Board
official advised his colleagues to keep notes so as to preserve an
audit trail. In the words of his memorandum - the official's
words, not mine - one public servant wrote to another, "Keep
these notes so as to preserve an audit trail so that we will not get
hung out to dry." Public servants were clearly worried about
what would happen in the event that there was an inquiry into the
signing and the process by which this contract was developed.

even thought about public issues. knew the government would
lose.

I ask honourable senators: If this was such a good deal, if the
process was so perfect, if everything was as wonderful as Senator
MacDonald and the Conservative members have said it was in
their majority report, why do you think civil servants would send
themselves messages saying that they must keep notes, otherwise
they would get hung out to dry? Why would you do that if you
really believed that the process was perfect? In fact, why do you
think, during this stretch, that the Department of Transport went
through three deputy ministers and four chief negotiators? Do
you think that was an accident? Why did Treasury Board
officials complain several times, in memoranda and in evidence
before the committee, that the chief negotiator was reporting
directly to the Privy Council Office?

Senator Kirby: At some point, honourable senators, the issue
of responsible government must be taken into account in this
process.

In case honourable senators have forgotten, the head official in
the Privy Council Office is the Clerk of the Privy Council. That
is the same clerk who was reporting on a weekly basis on this
issue to the Prime Minister and getting instructions back.
Treasury Board officials complained several times that the chief
negotiator was reporting directly to Privy Council officials
instead of going through them.
Why do you think a senior assistant deputy minister in the
Department of Transport, a man the committee heard called
"highly professional and hard working" by two successive
deputy ministers in Transport, was sent home for five weeks of
paid gardening leave in the middle of the negotiations? Is there
any possibility that this occurred simply because Paxport felt that
this person was not cooperating sufficiently with them, was being
a little too slow in the negotiations? Is there any chance that is
the reason this happened?
All of these peculiarities, all of these odd situations, for
anyone who knows how the public service works, are
documented in the report. They are not figments of our
imagination. We did not make them up. Witnesses came and told
us about them and produced documents that confirmed the
report. But, guess what? If you listen to Senator MacDonald, or if
you read the majority report, is it not amazing that all of these
facts are not touched on at all?
That leads me to one final fact which is crucial to this entire
issue because it is incontrovertible and uncontested. It is the fact
that these agreements were signed by a government 21 days
before election day. an election that everyone in the country,
every public opinion poll. every Tory candidate, and anyone who

Forgetting entirely about the rest of the process, this decision
to sign an agreement that would be legally binding on an
incoming government, an agreement that would represent a
major public policy initiative with profound implications for the
country's largest air terminal for 57 years, taken three weeks
before election day, is, in my view and in the view of the Liberal
members of the committee, sufficient reason on its own, entirely
independent of any other factor, to justify the cancelling of this
contract.
Senator DeWare: The decision was taken in August.

Honourable senators, the fact of the matter is that had the
Conservative government, which at that point had become the
Conservative government of Prime Minister Campbell, acted
responsibly and behaved in accordance with Canadian tradition
and in accordance with the traditions of the British parliamentary
system, Senator MacDonald and I would not be before you today
debating this issue. In fact, had they behaved appropriately, it
may very well be that the Conservative Party might not be
reduced to the mere two seats it now has in the House of
Commons.
What was the hurry? That is the question the other side has
never answered. If they really believe, as they claim, that this
contract was in the best interests of Canadians - and I
understand that they must make a case, and if you have a bad
case you do the best you can - if they genuinely believe that it
was fair and equitable, and if they, in their hearts, believe that
there was no flaw in the negotiation process, why did the
govemment insist on signing it 21 days before they left office? If
the deal was that good, does anyone doubt that it would have
been preserved and signed by an incoming government? What,
after all, was the rush? Who stood to benefit? That must be the
question, then, if the deal was signed.
Did the Canadian people stand to benefit? Were they any
better off by having it signed 21 days before the election than
they would have been if it were signed six weeks later? Clearly
not. Nothing happened in that intervening 21 days. The only
people who stood to benefit were the MergeCo partners, the
partners of Paxport, and ultimately of Claridge as they got into
the deal - clearly not the Canadian public.
What defence did members opposite put up for this clearly
extraordinary act of signing the contract 21 days before the
election? They tried to claim, until they were finally shot down
by lawyers who were called as witnesses, that the govemment
had no choice but to sign the contract. The fact of the matter is
that, right up to the day before the date of signing, there was no
contract between the parties. Indeed, the Clerk of the Privy
Council testified that serious negotiations were going on up to
24 hours before the contract was signed. Clearly, there was no
contract.

The argument the Conservatives then attempted to make was
essentially that there was some kind of law of semi-contract; that
there was a deal of some kind. However, if they were stili
negotiating major issues - which the public service witnesses
said they were - then clearly there was no legal contract. nor
was there a legal obligation on the govemrment to sign anything
21 days before the election. Indeed, if there was any obligation
on the govemrment. if they had had any sense of understanding of
the responsibility of a govemment duning an election campaign.
their obligation was flot to sign the contract.
Senator MacDonald is quite right: We quote one of the
witnesses who came before the committee. Professor John
Wilson, who described that as a reckless disregard for propriety.

instructed to avoid implementing maýjor policy initiatives. It ks
instructed to avoid making signiticant appointments; a specific
example being appointments to the judiciary. This Australian
convention also explicitly prevents govemnments from entering
into maýjor contracts during an election campaign, so do flot try to
tell us that we are trying to dream up some new, holier than thou
view of what is appropriate during an election campaign.
The fact is that Canada should have a law similar to the
Australian practice. The Australian practice is clearly what it is
because the people and politicians of Australia clearly
understand, as do the politicians in Canada - except those who
were in office at the time - what is appropriate, right, proper
moral and responsible during an election campaign.

Let me make a parenthetical comment. Senator MacDonald
then proceeded to imply that the other two witnesses who talked
about this issue, Professor Heard in particular. came out in favour
of this process. Prot'essor Heard said that no formaI constitutional
convention was broken. We know that. We neyer argued that. We
neyer even argued that it was illegal. We just argued that it was
immoral and, as Senator Grafstein said a few minutes ago. it was
clearly against Canadian political convention.

In summary. honourable senators. we reached the conclusions
we did because we believe that the entire process was flawed. It
was flawed from the decision to issue the RFP; it was flawed
because of the terms of' reference of the RFP; it was flawed
because of the way the negotiations proceeded; and it was
flawed. ultimately. because of the decision to sign the contract
during the election campaign.

We concede that the goverriment had the legal right to do it.
However. it is flot a constitutional issue but a moral issue. It is an
issue of what is appropriate. proper. reasonable and sensible for a
goverfment to do during an election campaign.

It was bad public policy. It was public policy that tlew directly
in the face of the government's own policy on airport devolution.
It was tlawed because it ran counter to several statements made
by Conservative ministers during the process, including. f'or
example, statements about the role of the local airport authorities,
the role of two airports and, ultimately. the role of privatization.

Madam Bourgon, the Clerk of the Privy Council. was asked by
Conservative senators what factors should be taken into account
with regard to government decision-making during a transition
period. She cited three factors and, having served in the Privy
Council office myself, 1 agree with those.
The first factor was that you do flot do things which will bind
future governiments. Guess what') The Pearson contrat bound
future goverfiments for 57 years.
The second factor was whether there were alternatives. There
certainly were. Therc was the alternative of waiting three weeks
to se the outcome of the election before making a decision.
The third factor was to not do things which cause controversy.
It is hard to believe. for anyone who read the newspapers, at Ieast
in the Metropolitan Toronto area 21 days before the election. that
signing this contract would not be full of political controversy.
Lvery one of the three cniteria which the Clerk of the Pnivy
Council says should be considered by a government in making a
decision as to what it will and will not do during an election
campaign were violated by the decision of the government of
Prime Minister Campbell to sign the contract.
Lest you think that this is a simple Canadian view of only
Canadians on this side of the house. that these are things that
should not be done during an election campaign, and that we are
being holier than thou. in Australia. which also follows the
practices of the British parliarnentary system. there is an explicit
written statement t'rom the Prime Minister's Office that a
-caretaker -ov ernment.- the phrase they Use to describe a
Cýo\ ýiiernmt dUrin- an election campaign. is \ erv constrained in
terîns of' \ bat it cani do duri ne an election. Speci t'icallk. it ks

1Senaloi

K~irhy 1

Therefore. honourable senators, we on this side. having looked
at the tacts which came before us. which. if you look at our terms
of reference. is what we were asked to do. reached the inevitable
conclusion that the decision to cancel the deal was the right
decisioji.
What did the Conservative senators do? Senator MacDonald
confirms something that 1 have been saying for some time;
namely, that the entire Conservative strategy with respect to this
issue was to discredit the Nixon report. Their logic was that if
they could discredit the Nixon report, it would follow that the
decision to cancel the agreement was the wrong decision.
We did flot do that. We set out to investigate whether the
decision was the right decision. to look at the facts. and to reacb
our own decision. We were not there to attack the Nixon report.
We were there to Write our own report and se whether we would
reach the saine conclusion as that reached by Bob Nixon.
Our analysis is différent from bis because we had some tacts
that he did not have. we had more time than he had, and we had
a lot of information that he did not have. 1 concede that our
analysis is quite different from his. but our conclusion is the
same. The fundamental position of the Tories was to attack and
discredit Nixon, thereby discrediting the decision. They
absolutely refused to look at any facts wbatsoever which made
Nixon's conclusion the right conclusion.
In the end. it is not our judgment or that of the Conservatives
whicb matters. What ultimately inatters is the judgement on this
issue of the Canadian people. Canadians knew in October ot'
1993 that this dea! \vas wronLg. They kne\w, that it was important

2599

SENATE DEBATES

Februarv 1, 1996

2599

SENATE DEBATES

Februarv 1. 1996

that this deal be cancelled in order that the needs of Pearson
airport could be addressed in a manner which is appropriate and
consistent with the public interest rather than the private interest
of a srnall group of people. The public interest was paramount,
and the people of Ontario, and those of Metro Toronto in
particular, knew that.
Honourable senators, in the court of public opinion, which is
what ultimately matters, rny colleagues opposite and their friends
in the previous Conservative administration have been judged
harshly by the people who ultimately have the right to make that
decision: the Canadian electorate. That, honourable senators, is
the bottom line of this very sad chapter in Canadian politics.
[Translation]

Hon. Marcel Prud'homme: Would the honourable senator be
prepared to, consider the possibility of presenting a bill aimed at
preventing future governments from entering into such contracts
in their final months or weeks of their mandate, or during an
electoral carnpaign?
We will recaîl Senator Pitfield's words, extraordinary ones in
my opinion, on these matters. They made a real impression upon
me. What I arn thinking of is what could be done in future to
avoid what the senator described as an abuse, to ensure that any
new administration, including this one, will flot have the
opportunity to get into the difficulties that have befallen al
governments, as Senator Pitfield so aptly described.
[En glish]

Senator Kirby: The answer to your question is a categorical
"yes." This case confirms my strong belief that we should have
in Canada a law which, puts into effect the Australian convention.
It should flot be left to convention, whim and political judgment.
During the Pearson hearings we leamned that a govemment which
knows that it will be defeated is removed from any constraint to
be responsible. The way to deal with that is by passing a law. I
have had sonne unofficial talks with members on both sides of
this chamber about the desirability of doing that in the next
session.
On motion of Senator Berniston, debate adjoumned.
0(1740)

BUSINESS 0F THE SENATE
Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourable senators, I wish to make a brief
intervention at this time. It bas been a long day. With the
exception of Senator Thériault's inquiry, No. 73, there appears to
be agreement that aIl other orders, inquiries, motions, and reports
stand. If we do have that agreernent, I would suggest that Senator
Thériault's inquiry be called now.
The Hon. the Speaker: Is it agreed. honourable senators?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.

[Translation]

SOCIAL PROGRAMS IN CANADA
INQUIRY-DEBATE ADJOURNED

Hon. L. Norbert Thérianit rose pursuant to notice of
Wednesday December 6, 1995:
That he will cati the attention of the Senate to, concemrs
with respect to, social programs in Canada.
He said: Honourable senators, it is 5:30 p.m. This is Iikely the
Iast time 1 shall have the privilege of speaking to this chamber.
for which 1 have such great respect. 1 arn pleased to, have heard
an old-style political debate between Senators MacDonald and
Kirby, Maritimers both, and a credit to us.
I arn also aware that the Speaker bas announced a reception
tonight in honour of the new senator but before leaving I have
some things to say. I will need a bit more than 15 minutes,
perhaps even 30.
I do flot expect senators to stay to listen to me, but if there
were some way to get what 1 have to, say recorded in the Debates
of the Senate, even if there is no one present. I would appreciate
that.
Honourable senators, I will flot stop reflecting on certain
matters that have been of concern to me throughout my political
career just because I will no longer be in the Senate. Some of
them wilî remain with me, and it is precisely of those I wish to,
speak today.
My attachment to Canada is unconditional. This country has
always been one to, confront us with stimulating and sometimes
difficult challenges. Behind the political decisions. people
require and deserve actions that are focused on the greatest
public good. You will flot find it surprising if 1 tell you that what
lies behind my words is a basic concern with the future of social
programs. One might say that my entire life in politics bas been
closely linked to that concern.
I had the honour of being at the helm of the ministry of Health
under then Premier, now Senator, Robichaud. I had the honour of
being at the head of that ministry when it inaugurated health
insurance in the late sixties. Those who remember what
New Brunswick was like at that time will need no convincing
that that policy made a real difference.
The tirnes they were a-changing, whether CCF policies in
Saskatchewan or the Lesage government's reforms in Quebec.
Today as well, the times they are a-changing. 1 would merely like
assurance that, in the changes that are to corne, we do flot lose
sight of the intent and the scope of past changes. Our country
must continue to produce wealth and, in order to do so, it is
imperative for our public finances to be put in order. However, is
the ultimate measure of the wealth of a society not the condition
of its least fortunate members. its poorest members? 1 have
always believed that. and 1 still do.

I have always been one of those people who believe that better
program management is essential. 1 have neyer hidden my view
that the federal governiment must maintain its capacity to set
national standards for social policy, while leaving program
administration for the provinces. in order to attain the desired
objectives.

on international markets. It is not enough to protect and rebuild
resources t0 gel this industry out of the doldrums. Modernizing
the fisheries and new marketing strategies are two aspects that
are essential to the development of this economic sector.

National standards must reflect the legislative provisions
prescribed by the Officiai Languages Act for attaining the
desired objectives. This approach bas the two-fold advantage of
sharing responsibilities and bringing social program
administration under one and the same mechanism, thus allowing
economies of scale by eliminating program duplication and
overlap. It strikes me as essential. moreover. for the Canadian
govemment to, preserve its ability to intervene in various ways to
support the development of francophone communities outside
Quebec.

[En glisli]

Devolution of powers could be very damaging to the
development of these communities unless accompanied by
specific guarantees that take into accounit the local economy. The
local experience with school boards is a case in point. One of
these specific guarantees is recognition of linguistic duality. In
other words, any proposai for devolution of powers to the
provinces should include a clause recognizing the OfficiaI
Languages Act.
Honourable senators. it is my opinion that Canada's social
security system must be updated to adjust to the situation we are
facing at the end of this century. That is what the governiment did
when it announced ils proposais f'or changes in unemployment
insurance. flow t0 become employment insurance. 1 corne from
one of those regions with a resource-based economy. These
sectors are now in decline. Less manpower is needed by industry.
Comparaîively speaking. these regions are more dependent on
transfer payments than the national average. However, the people
in my community are proud and want to take charge of their own
]ives.
The aim of social assistance policies should be to gel people
who are able to work off the welfare rolls. It is not truc that most
welfare recipients would rather live on governiment handouts
than work. Canadians want 10 earn an honest living. When GM
announced in January 1995 that 500 jobs might be created at its
plant in Oshawa. 25 000 people turned up one momning to apply
for one of those jobs. They came from aIl over Canada to apply
for a job that had yet to be created. Do not tell me that Canadians
do not want to work.

0

(175o)

1 now turn to my concern about healtb care. In this current
wave of reform and cuîbacks, it is of great importance that we
maintain the highest hcalth care standards for aIl of our citizens.
standards which wc have worked so hard to establish and
maintain since World War Il. It is crucial that we do not end up
with special health care access and services for the privileged.
We cannot allow this to happen while the maýjority of Canadians
witness the demise of universal health care. There should be no
distinction in health services based on region or class.
1 know that some people are attracted to the U.S. style of
health care system. but this example in itself should be a good
deterrent to sucb a temptation. Even if our American neighbours
can brag about having some of the best bospitals in the world, 1,
for one, would not brag about a system where millions of people,
mostly poor, have no insured coverage whatsoever in 1996.
That is not to say that there are no savings to be made in
operating such a system. Even the Americans will acknowledge
that the Canadian way of doing things is acîually less expensive.
Studies show that the Big Three automobile producers estimate
that, for every vehicle built in Canada, there is a net savings
of $1,000 in the health care premiums paid 10 ils Canadian
workers. This constitutes a clear competitive advantage for us. A
healthy workforce is also good for the cconomy.
Change is inevitable. In 1994. in Ontario alone. the
govemrment spent $450 million to deal with the common cold in
emergency rooms. You do not need to be a rocket scientist to
figure out that we no longer have those sums of' money to deal
wiîh that obnoxious cold for whicb there is no cure in any event.
Clearly. there are some ways in which we could improve our
health care system. These days we are more prepared to stress
preventative measures whicb could also be cheaper in the long
mun.
Ultimately, what matters is the healtb of the Canadian people,
including our childrcn in the classrooms and the elderly. Equal
access 10 our health system, from sea 10 sea, is also important.

We must not concentrate only on reducing the deficit. It is my
conviction that it is our duly to develop a Canadian social
security system that is fair and equitable for aIl Canadians. Any
changes should respond and adjust to the particular
circumstances of individuals and regions faced with an economy
based on seasonal jobs. The employment insurance system will
require that the unemployed make a serious effort to, find work. 1
agree with this type of measure. We must break the dependency
cycle. However. such measures do not deal with the fundamental
problem of' an economy based on seasonal employment.

There are different ways t0 reform the system. Wbile Roy
Romanow. Frank McKenna and Ralph Klein have ail shut down
hospitals. and wbile Mike Harris wiIl do the same and Quebec
will likely sec closures shortly. we can stilî sec important
differences in their respective approaches. The first two have
concentrated. first and toremost. on the good health of the
people. while the other two are obscssed. almost exclusivcly
witb the bottom fine.

Ih the fisheries. for instance. the industry must diversity by
processim, sealood whi le increasin- thc added v aluec and
dce elopi ng a marketing strategy l'oi- the sale of quality producis

Do 1 nccd to remind you which vision 1 favour? The bottoni
fine ks there t0 serv e the quality of life of the people. Ih is. in
itsell. neither an abstract concept nor a holy quest: wve should
nlever torget Ibis.

1 Senali-Thériauli 1

Februarv 1, 1996SNAEDBES21

SENATE DEBATES

[Translation]

Honourable senators. I have long regretted the fact that the
unemployment insurance plan was not flexible enough to permit
a capable individual wanting to improve bis lot to take training
without losing bis benefits. My view of things, wbere a little
imagination is needed flot to see ail UI claimants as systern
abusers, is fair.
[En glish]

Training in the workplace rernains our best bet, but it must at
first simply exist. In entire regions wbere small business accounts
for most of tbe jobs, training is nonexistent. Our previous UI
systemn was inadequate because it favoured dependency on the
system over individual and collective responsibility to find work.
Nowbere is this dependency bigher than in regions built on
seasonal industries.
If a UI recipient decides to, pursue training, the systemn should
encourage this person to do so without loss of benefit. This could
be donc by a mix of grants, low- or no-interest boans and actual
ernployment benefits. There is a false perception out there about
seasonal workers. Many Canadians think that the govemnment
programs aimed at seasonal workers arc too generous and just
feed dependency.
I have always thougbt of seasonal workers as professionals of
their trade. A fisherman will neyer be able to fisb the wholc year
through. He must follow the natural cycle of his industry.
Govemnments mnust understand this and take it into account. 1 will
neyer accept, as is proposed in the new reforrns for UI, that these
folks should be treated as second-class citizens.
1 am hopeful that Doug Young wilI fix that. I bave faitb that
with Doug Young as Minister of Human Resources
Development, it will flot be the bureaucrats and the ricb
industrialists from central Canada who will make the policy
decisions;, be will make those bimself.
[Translation]

Honourable senators, this does not mean tbat we should not
reformn the social programs for the people working in this sector.
An Acadian working in the Acadian peninsula who
carns $50,000 or $ 100,000 in two or three months sbould not be
entitled to, unernployment insurance benefits. I feel that scbool
age young people who bave not completed high school, should
flot be entitled to, unemploy ment insurance. In addition to the
costs to government of unemployment insurance benefits in
many of these cases - 1 am talking of scbool age young people
a further investment is made in training these young people t0
get tbemn into the job market. Had they completed their studies,
we could bave saved the benefits and the training costs. To
achieve the same results, such a measure perbaps rnight be
effective in preventîng scbool dropout and its ever-increasing,
disastrous effects.
1 arn not satisfied cither that tigbtening conditions of eligibility
or rcducing levels of benefits arc the solution. These actions may
shift the problem and cause the unemployed to swcll the ranks of

2601

those on welfare. Our aim should be to eliminate unemployment
and flot the victim of the situation. Savings to be made in the area
of unemployment should corne from a drop in its use with
equivalent job creation.
The savings should be reinvested, in part at least, in a job
creation strategy to, fight the deficit. Let us flot forget that those
who work pay their share of income tax and help reduce the
infamous deficit. The new high tech world economy requires a
period of transition and adjustment for workers.
[En glish]

1 fear that entire rural communities do flot even have an access
ramp to the information highway. More and more so, we are
talking about this higbway as the road to tbe economy of the
future. In many rural communities, this highway bas yet to be
accessed. Small businesses are flot fully equipped to take their
place on this bighway. They often lack the specialized staff
which would be the backbone of their ability to compete.
1 would point out that, in New Brunswick, under Premier
McKenna, we are the leader in this field. What bas been donc in
New Brunswick can be done ail over the country, and 1 highly
recommend it.
[Translation]

Honourable senators, the Government of New Brunswick did
not stop at improving the state of public finances. Lt placed the
provincial economy on new economic paths, including those of
telecommunications, while tocussing on the bilingual character
of the province's labour force. Lt demonstrated its vitality and
even an aggressiveness, for wbich some criticized it. in its efforts
to draw business to New Brunswick. The McKenna goverriment
sbowed political vision and wilI, whicb are today paying off.
Other Canadians deserve as much.
In my opinion, the Liberal social security philosophy should
be backed up by a real strategy based on the development of
Canada's regions. More than ever before, the federal govemment
must act as a catalyst in the creation of jobs. It must promote the
development of private business by upgrading human resources
and improving the adaptability of our communities. The
proportion of the population that has benefited from
post-secondary training and still remains unemployed or is in a
threatened job increases relentlessly.
The aftermath of an economic crisis is extremely difficult and
hard to accept for a country like ours. The technological sector
can create only so many jobs. What is more, it bas a direct
influence on the increased rate of unemployment because, for
example, robots are replacing workers increasingly. Tbis is why
Canada, and we are al involved, must strive to create jobs in
order to remedy the problemn of unemployment found throughout
the country. The challenge is to carry out this feat within the
reduced fiscal manoeuvring roomn available.
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, it is six o'clock.
Is it agreed I should not sec the dlock?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.

Senator Thériault: Thank you. honourable senators. and 1
must again apologize because this is very likely the last time 1
shall have the opportunîty of' speaking to the Senate. 1 appreciate
the lime you are giving me.

when tamilies could not afford to buy a new home to kick-start
the construction industry and could not afflord new household
appliances to spur the manulfacturing sector?
[Translation]

The social and intellectual climate we are living in is hardly a
rcassuring one. In the name of economic doctrine, one barely
open to question, there seems to be unanimity 0f opinion and an
absence of debate. Howevcr, do not misundcrstand me. The
deficit and debt issue is an absolute priority for the country.
The Minister of Finance's budget forecast of a $24-billion
deticit next year is on the right track. It is still too high for the
good of the country. We have reached the point of borrowing
money just to pay our grocery buis. That is shocking, and cannot
continue. 1 agree with the Minister of Finance's last economic
statement, that the deticit must be a maximum of 3 per cent of
the gross national product. The lower it is. the better. The battle
against the deticît must continue to be a priority until the deticit
is eradicated.
0000

[En glish]
Having said this. there are different approaches to deficit
reduction. There is Ralph Klein's way; there is Frank McKenna's
way; there is Mike Harris' way; and there is Paul Martin's way.
When reading editonials in The Globe and Mail or Thie Financial
Post, one would be forced 10 think that there is only one way to
slash the deticit, with only one tool to do the trick. That tool is a
torch so govemrments can slash every program in the community
and then burm the remains.
Honourable senators, if I were the last person left on earth, 1
would fight this view of things to the end, tbis blind, right-wing
ideology, not for ideology's sake but because behind every
statistic and number lies a human being. Someone who has
worked bard oftcn does not make ends meet.
My point of view does not cxclude any reform to social
spcnding or any cuts to social services. 0f course there have been
abuses. 0f course some programs are a trap of dependency.
However. what wc need is to get people out of this depcndency.
To se welfare as a big case of massive fraud is prepostcrous. In
my opinion. only ideologues such as David Frum, who grcw up
in Toronto's posh confines and probably neyer kncw anyone or
any family on wclfarc, could reach such an ignorant conclusion.
Let me tell you that is il casier to reach such conclusions if you
are from Rosedale or Wcstmount than if you arc from my region
of Canada.
Honourable senators, it is the unanimity of the right-wing vicw
that really bugs me. Caîl this outdated, but 1 am stili preoccupied
with the people bchind the statistics. As a democrat and a
pluralist, I am still preoccupied by the unanimity of horrors in the
media and elsewhere. The recession we have endured since 1990
has been dcvastating. It was causcd by a number of' factors. the
hîgh cost of govemrment spending being one of them perhaps. but
1 will underline one of them. One cause which bas been grossly
overlooked is the high interest rates imposed by thc Bank of
Canada ai the becinnin- of' the 90s. Whv did the central bank
maintain such hieh interest rates while industry w~as on ils kilees.

It could even be argued that this overly tight monctary policy
bas contributed to the deficit by favouring financial capital over
manutacturing capital.
Sucb dctailcd analyses have rarcly appearcd on the editorial
pages. Here again. tbey said that social program expenditures had
to be rcduccd. These represcntcd 19.7 per cent of the gross
national product in 1994. whereas the f'igure for 1992 was
17.8 per cent.
In the present climate. almosi no role will be lefi for
govcrnmcnts to play. Elccted officiais will be there to facilitate
companies* doing business. It is commonly said that businesses
are by f'ar the best managers of' the economy, anyway. There are
excellent Canadian entrepreneurs. Some of our companies, such
as Bell Canada and Bombardier. are among the world's hest.
Howevcr, might the recent bankruptcies of Campcau, the
Reichmanns and the like not also be an indicator that there are
management errors in the private sector? That sector. too.
is human.
According to Mike Harris. Preston Manning, Diane Francis
and The Financial Post, the only raison d'être f'or any
govemrment. is to eliminate the deficit. Social expectations. like
collective well-being. are reduced to a strict minimum.
[En glish 1
Do not get me wrong - government bas a responsibility to
foster a good business climate, but if it must sacrifice its social
responsibilities. is business willing to pick up the slack? We have
not seen any trends pointing in that direction yet. and rightly so.
because that is not the lob of business -it is the job of
govcrniment.
In early December, The Globe and Mail reported two différent
but complementary stories. The first was that the Royal Bank
rccorded a record profit of' $1.3 billion. Good. The next day, the
same paper rcportcd that one out of six Canadians is barely
literate. Thcy have problemrs reading textbooks, application
forms and manuals. 1 mention thcse two examples because 1
tbink they are closcly linked. Literacy is economy; good health
care is economy; public infrastructure is economy. However, too
many politicians today forget about that. It does not seem too
difficult to understand that if we culto10 much from the colleges
and universities. we will pay a price for this somewhere down the
road.
Senator Kinsella: Hear. hear!
[Translation]
Senator Thériault: According bo the neo-conservatives.
should not coiisider investmients iii the public sector- until
clean up our- public f'inances. Howcvcr. wshat il'it takes l'ive or
or l'ilIteen vears? Who wîill look ai'ter the people affiectcd
cuit-balcks? 1Tuie chur-clhs? The Salvalion Arniy?

we
we
tell
ký

February 1, 1996

February 1, 1996

SENATE DEBATES

SENATE DEBATES

Honourable senators, Canada is a rich country, and it can do
much better than that. The vulnerable and the needy are not
going to go away, even if they are less dependent on government
programs. Taxes are way out of ail proportion. What about
Germany with its vigourous economy, although its citizens are
taxed more than we are?
They realize over there that the common good is not just the
good of one segment of society but is imperative for a healthy
economy. I am sure this understanding exists among Canadians
as well.
We must appeal to our greatest common virtues in order to put
our financial house in order, review the tax system and impose a
minimum tax as a direct contribution towards reducing the
deficit.
Canadians want to work, and job creation is the real solution to
the fiscal crisis. Canadians want to take care of the most
vulnerable in our society. Canadians want to keep their social
programs. It is only common sense to find various ways to
reduce the deficit, because the American way, the way of the
neo-conservatives, leads inevitably to a society of rich and poor,
a society where the middle class is constantly shrinking and
intolerance is the order of the day. That is what is at stake. That is
what I am worried about.
Like my colleague Senator Roux, I am a pacifist at heart. Like
him and most Canadians, I would like to see a review of the
national defence budget, in light of our problems with the deficit.
I am worried about the differences in treatment of budget
cutbacks. The easy target, as I said before, is our social
programs, which are being slashed in a spectacular way. The real
challenge is to take a courageous and responsible attitude by
reducing the national defence budget. Whether we like it or not,
money is being wasted on defence while the needs of the public
are not being met. In fact, it is estimated that the world spends
20 billion American dollars a week on defence, while the same
amount spent annually between now and the year 2000 would be
enough to meet ail the objectives set for this period at the world
summit on children held in 1990, objectives that include
reducing malnutrition by half and achieving an immunization
rate of 90 per cent.
[English]

Nonetheless, the budget of the Department of National
Defence for 1995-96 will still be 27 per cent higher after
inflation than it was in 1980-81 when the last Cold War build-up
began. In 1994, Canada remained the twelfth largest military
spender in the world. Between 1994 and 1995, world military
spending dropped by 29 per cent while Canadian military
spending increased by 3 per cent.
[Translation]

It was social security that budget cuts affected the most. I
believe that the role of Canada, the envy of everybody, is to help
prevent conflict in the world. It must provide an example by
providing more humanitarian aid.

2603

2603

When we realize that social injustice and intolerable inequality
lead sooner or later to revolts such as hunger strikes and civil or
international wars, we who live in peace must give thought to
security and to the prevention of wars. This is where, in my
humble opinion, our country can and must make its mark.
The aim of our considering this question is to do away with the
myth that violence is man's attraction to war, a natural
component of human nature. We must stop thinking that violence
is natural and war inevitable.
Canada must provide an example. No military force can
succeed when the international or political diplomacy of the
countries involved is not based on an accurate assessment of the
political situation, adapted to local realities.
Canada's requirements, in terms of national security, coastal
and air surveillance, rescue, and police force back-up, cannot be
met in the context of a major war. Our troops need training and
equipment in keeping with the missions they will now be
expected to carry out. The review of the military organization
also must be in response to this new mission. It must be directed
toward a diplomatic resolution of conflicts. Canada's real
challenge is not military, but technological and economic.
At a time when Canada is embarked upon a major deficit
reduction operation, it would be the height of paradox if it were
to forgo the rare means at its disposal to take up and win the
urgent and vital battle to put the country back on the rails of
prosperity and to reaffirm unity and its national identity.
What would be the point of having the finest shield if only to
defend symbolically the borders of a nation that no longer had
the means to keep its standard of living and security?
In the past ten years, Canada's national debt has almost tripled,
going from $168 billion in 1983-84 to $458 billion in 1993. It
has forced the government to spend a third of its tax revenues on
servicing the debt. This is totally unacceptable. The National
Council of Welfare stated in its 1993 report that one Canadian in
six was poor; that nearly five million people lived below the
poverty line.
According to the May 1994 issue of the magazine Affaires,
business paid $14 billion for jobs in 1976 and only $7 billion in
1992. Individual income tax increased on average by 7 per cent
annually between 1984 and 1992. Those in the high income
bracket pay an average of 10 per cent of their income in taxes,
whereas the average worker pays 40 per cent. Business people
and the rich have some 59 ways of completely avoiding paying
taxes in addition to over 105 tax shelters, deductions and tax
credits available to them. Nearly 400,000 businesses pay no taxes
despite receiving over $36 billion a year in government
subsidies.
Investors, too, should pay their fair share of taxes. In his tax
reform paper proposing a single tax system, Dennis Mills, the
hon. member for Broadview-Greenwood in Toronto, shows
how the tax system is unfair by giving preferential treatment to
investors. For example, a worker making $50,000 a year will pay
23.7 per cent of his income in taxes, while an investor with the

same $50.000 income will pay 17.5 per cent. This amounts 10
6 per cent of $31.100 a year. A worker earning $100,000 will pay
34.1 per cent in taxes as opposed to 21.3 per cent for the investor.
In tbis case. the difference is even greater as the investor will pay
12 per cent or $12.800 less in taxes.
Therefore. the bigber the investor's income. the more tax
shelters Ibere seem to be. We should take a good look at the tax
shelters used by Canada's wealthy families. The taxes recovered
by the govemment could be used to fund social programs and to
reduce the debt. 1 tbink that asking those Canadians who are
better off 10 pay more money in taxes based on their income
would give us a way to fight the deficit. We must stop
continuously going atter lower-income taxpayers.
I Iistened carefully to today's debate on Bill C-I 110. Even with
the best social programs in the world, how can ibis country gel
ahead while the federal systemn is paraîysed by Quebec
separatism9 This is a matter that bothers me and that will
eventually have t0 be resolved once and for ail.
We have been hearing the samne thing over and over for far 100
long. 1 look forward to seeing ibis malaise dissipated as soon as
possible. Must 1 remind you that the October 30 referendum was
won by the fedieralist side? It is true that the resulîs could hardly
have been any dloser, but it was a clear victory nonetheless.
It is easy to understand the strategy hehind the separatists
obstinately persisîing in talking and acting as if thcy had won.
They are trying t0 create the illusion that the way 10 separation is
ail laid out and obstacle-free. In their quest for separation.
however. separalists have been using for nearly 30 years tricks as
questionable as humiliating Quebec. To go to such lengths is
incomprehensible 10 everyone in the world, except for old-stock
nationalists, of course. This approach bad an impact on Quebec's
economy as well as on the rest of Canada.

The ultiniate proof. in my mind, of their dead-end mentality is
found in the nosedive Montreal has taken. Montreal used to be.
for us Acadians in particular and for other French Canadians as
well, a leader of the economy and in the promotion of the French
language. Montreal used 10 be a large urban retiection of whaî
we were collectively. Needless 10 say. that il is no longer the
case. Firsî of ail, instead of being the metropolis of aIl] French
Canadians. Montreal has become the private preserve of
Quebecers, as advocated during the quiet revolution. Does
anyone who is not a Quebecer feel comfortable in Montreal
today?
Second. Monîreal's economy is s0 weak Ibat the city is no
longer the focal point il once was. It no longer attracîs those
workers from the maritimes who keep looking furtber and further
wesî for work. Monîreal is the more shadow of ils former self.
Worse yet, there is a clear connection beîween Montreal's decline
and tbe obstinacy of the nationalisîs. who are obsessed wiîb
having a country at any cost. They have no qualms about
sacrificing their mosî important ciîy. It does not bother the Most
radical of ibem to know that other French Canadians no longer
fieel ai home in Ibis nietropolis. It does not bother the nalionalisîs

1SenaiwTheijatlit

1

that there is a constant malaise between them and immigrants.
who symboliLe the future.
If you compare Montreal t0 Toronto, the conîrast and decline
is even more apparent. Walking through a Toronto etbnic
neighhourhood. il is easy to see wbere the open-mindedness and
healthier economy is 10 be found. While experiencing economic
difficulties of ils own. Toronto bas clearly taken over from
Montreal as Ibis country's metropolis. and Ibis for the most part
because of tbe nationalists* obsession and stubbornness.
I have neyer believed in nationalism. Ibis ideology based on
race and narrow-mindedness. Wben Quebec nationalisîs refute
sucb accusations. tbey invariably point t0 tbeir open-mindedness
and tolerance. However, these values are universal and are sbared
by ail Canadians; indeed. tbey form part of Canada's repulation
on the international scenie. Do not gel me wrong; Quebecers are
open-minded and tolerant. tbey are also Canadians. Separatist
propaganda makes no mention of the tact Ibat Quebecers are an
integral part of our country.
At the constitutional level. the lime bas comne 10 make some
changes and 10 counter tbe Bloc Québécois' efforts 10 state ils
separatist views in a Parliament Ibal it considers t0 be a foreign
institution. The lime bas come 10 stop the Reform Party members
who sec bilingualismn as an obstacle 10 their narrow and limited
view of the country. Wbat does the Reform Party know about
bilingualism? Surely as mucb as ils COR party cousins in New
Brunswick, wbich bas just been wiped off the political map along
witb ils bigoîed ideas regarding Acadians. Quebec must join the
Constitution of ils own volition. If we are 10 have a strong
Canada. Quebec must be part of it as a major partner. 1 cannot
imagine a strong Canada witbouî a strong Quebec. However. I
insist that the rights of Frencb-speaking minorities and ail other
minorities must he adequalely proîected in any constitutional
agreement.
The Canadian government bas a responsibiliîy t0 make
realisîic and acceptable offers 10 a majority of Quebecers.
English Canada must also accept these offers wiîh an open and
positive attitude. Sbould that process fail. we ail know wbat the
consequence would be.
I supported the Meecb Lake Accord and the Charlottetown
Agreement, and last October 1 participated in the buge rally beld
in Monîreal t0 promote Canadian unity. 1 also support the current
change. I am in favour of Quebec rejoining the great Canadian
family. This is an urgent and pressing issue wbicb must be settled
as quickly as possible.
Even in making such a profession of faitb, I can neyer saîisfy
Quebec separatisîs, who do not even want 10 bear proposais from
Ottawa, and wbo dreamn only of embassies. and of a presidential
residence. We must solve Ibis issue as quickly as possible. We
must make sure Ibat Quebecers can overwbelmingly support
Canada.
At a lime wben opinion polis dominate political life. perbaps
we sbould remember that government's role is I0 govern. We
miust put in place ways to create new businesses by stimulating
and encourao-ineg economic expansion. We should neyer for,-et

February 1, 1996

February I. 1996

2605

SENATE DEBATES
SENATE DEBATES

the reasons for a healthy economy. We must do everything we
can to stimulate Canada's economy. because work, dignity and
prosperity must be available to everyone. When. for any reason.
this is impossible, the government should stilI be responsible for
supporting and helping the most vulnerable in our society. Social
justice is a policy, a political choice that Canada has made ever
since it was founded, and a political choice it must maintain
today.
Government's role is also to define and defend the public
space. It is flot necessary to privatize everything to be efficient.
We must take a pragmatic attitude instead of being hung up on
obsolete ideologies. As we enter the twenty-first century, we
absolutely must deal with this constitutional issue that has been
plaguing us for far too long. Canada must take its place at the
forefront of the industrialized world. The stakes are high, and we
have practically ail the assets we need to make Canada the
country of the next century.
Honourable senators, 1 must express my gratitude for having
been allowed to say something that 1 needed to say and
also - since this is probably my last time here - to pass on my
very best wishes to everyone here. You have your work cut out
for you. When I arrived here 17 years ago, it seemed to me that I
had a whole lifetime ahead of me. Now that time is nearly over,
there is one thing lefi for me to say: Here in the Senate, 1 met the
best people 1 have met anywhere in my life, men and women

2605

devoted to their country, honest and sincere, informed, specialists
in ail areas. We have not yet found a way to work together,
perhaps because we are too tied up in our own partisan politics. 1
would ask you. however, in the coming months or years, when
the future of the country is at stake, to try to put partisan politics
aside and to work together to preserve this wonderful country
which we ail love.
On motion of Senator Bemrtson, debate adjoumned.
[En glish]

BUSINESS 0F THE SENATE
Hon. B. Alasdair Graham, (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourable senators, there will, of course, be
other opportunities to pay appropriate tribute to the life, times
and many accomplishments of our dear friend and culleague
Senator Thériault, but, before moving the adjoumrment, may 1
observe, on behaîf of ail honourable senators in the chamber and
elsewhere, that we have just heard from one of the greatest, most
sincere, most eloquent, most forceful, and most persuasive social
consciences in ail of Canada.
Hon. Senators: Hear, hear!
The Senate adjoumned until Friday, February 2, at 10:00 a.m.

TUE SENATE
Friday, February 2, 1996
The Senate met at 10:00 a.m., the Speaker in the Chair.
Prayers.

SENATORS' STATEMENTS
THE HONOURABLE SHIRLEY MAHEU
TRIBUTE ON APPOINTMENT TO SENATE

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government):
Honourable senators. 1 am particularly disappointed that I was
unable to be here yesterday, through no fault of my own. 1 wish
to extend the warmest of greetings and welcome to the newest
scîîator in this chamber. Senator Shirley Maheu.
1 know that many things - aIl complimentary - were said
about Shirley yesterday. and 1 should like to echo them. She is
what is known as a -people's politician." She is a listener. She
pays attention to the people whom she represents. This is as
important in the Senate as it is in the other place.
Yesterday. the remark was made that she is simply known as
"Shirley- around her area. I have a special way of corroborating
that tact hecause my city of' Lethbridge is twinned with her city
of' St-Laurent. I know from the exchanges that have taken place
over the years how highly she is thought of and respected.
She wiII be a great addition to this chamber through her
experience in her former constituency, her experience in the
other place and her desire to reach out to people, as she has donc
particularly in the area of citizenship and immigration. Last, but
definitely not least, her addition to this chamber, I am sure. is
expressed in her fervent love for the unity of this country and
Quebec's place in it.

THE HONOURABLE JOHN SYLVAIN
TRIBUTE ON RESIGNATION FROM SENATE

Hon. Joyce Fairbairn (Leader of the Government>:
Honourable senators. there is another very important person to
whomn 1 wish to pay tribute today, the former Senator
John Sylvain.
Honourable senators, 1 speak as a colleague of Senator
Sylvain, who admired him enormously. He brought to this
chamber not just a background in his personal field, which was
commerce and the insurance business, but a willingness to share
that background and. as a resu It. the Senate was the benefactor of
the tremendous work he did on one of our major committees, the
Standing Senate Committee on Banking. Trade and Commerce.

He also brought with him a military background in both the
active and reserve forces, which was of great assistance in some
of the work donc by the Subcommittee on Veterans Affairs ot
this place.
More than anything, though. whenever one had conversations
with John Sylvain, he talked about this country. The Iast
intervention he made in this house concernied the work ai of us
in Canada have to do to keep the country strong and united.
1 wish him and his family well. 1 know that as the weeks and
months unfold. and the debate about our country unfolds, there
will be in Quebec a strong and passionate voice from
John Sylvain for a strong and united Canada with Quebec at
its heart.

THE HONOURABLE EARL A. HASTINGS
TRIBUTE ON RESIGNATION AS CHAIRMAN
0F INTERNAL ECONOMY COMMITTEE

Hon. Colin Kenny: Honourable senators. on behaif of
Senator Di Nino and myseif. 1 should like to inform the Senate
that at yesterday's meeting of the Standing Committee on
InternaI Economy. Budgets and Administration, the following
motion was passed:
That the Standing Committee on InternaI Economy,
Budgets and Administration expresses its appreciation to the
Honourable Senator Hastings, Chairman of the Committee
from February 24. 1994 until December 14, 1995, for his
leadership and contribution to the work of this Committee
and to the Senate of Canada.
Honourable senators, it would be appropriate to remind the
house of the accomplishments of the committee under the
leadership of Senator Hastings. In addition to the routine but
nevertheless essential duties of reviewing budget applications
from committee chairmen and from the administration, Senator
Hastings* successes were many.
In the nearly two years that he served as chairman. he oversaw
major construction initiatives, including the renovation of the
1910 wing of the East Block, which is scheduled for completion
in the summer of' 1997, and the construction of the new
committee roomn in the Centre Block, which is scheduled for
completion early in 1998.
Under his leadership. the committee improved the enhanced
program for visitors to Parliament. as proposed by the Speakers
of both Houses. opening the doors for the first time in Canada's
history to permit visitors to behold the two Houses of Parliament
l'rom our owfl viewpoint here within.

February 2, 1996

Februarv2, 1996

SENATE DEBATES
SENATE DEBATES

2607
2607

Although it has been a topic of discussion for several years, it
was Senator Hastings who had the Internal Economy Committee
give the Senate administration an official mandate to discuss
with their House of Commons counterparts matters of mutual
interest to identify potential cost efficiencies.

exploits of an 1l-year-old boy who, because of his age, is not
subject to prosecution on criminal charges. The boy's problems
are portrayed as his criminal activities are explored, as his brutal
family life is revealed, and as his poor living conditions are
exposed.

Senator Hastings is an open-minded individual. It was under
his leadership that the Internal Economy Committee blessed the
electronic distribution of documents on the Parliament site of the
Internet. Transcripts and reports from three major committees,
the Special Committee of the Senate on Euthanasia and Assisted
Suicide, the Special Committee of the Senate on Pearson Airport
Agreements and, currently, the Special Committee on Bill C-110,
an act respecting constitutional amendments, have been accessed
by the public over the Internet.

By addressing subject-matter that is both emotionally charged
and complex, the CBC ventured where other broadcasters would,
perhaps, not dare. The result, however, was a quality production
which, although shocking at times, was couched in a contextual
framework which allowed for a better understanding of the
phenomenon of violence and, in particular, youth violence.

His biggest achievement by far, however, was the repatriation
of the administrative support role to the parliamentary
associations. As a reflection of our constitutional equality with
the other place, fully half, or four of the eight parliamentary
associations, namely, the Inter-Parliamentary Union, the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization/North Atlantic Assembly
Parliamentary Association, Canada-Europe Parliamentary
Association and the Canada-France Inter-Parliamentary
Association, are now being administered by Senate staff. This
represented a huge cost saving. In addition, Senator Hastings
advocated the creation of a smaller Joint Inter-Parliamentary
Council that he, as chairman of Internal Economy, would jointly
chair along with an appointee of the House of Commons.
In brief, honourable senators, circumstances have not
permitted Earl Hastings to continue in his role as the chairman of
the Internal Economy, Budgets and Administration Committee.
However, Senator Di Nino and I invite all senators to recognize
the significant contributions that he made to the betterment of the
Senate in that role.
THE HONOURABLE MARJORY LEBRETON
CONDOLENCES ON RECENT BEREAVEMENTS

Hon. Colin Kenny: Honourable senators, I would be remiss if
I did not say a few words about the recent tragedy that has
befallen a distinguished member of our committee, the
Honourable Senator Marjory LeBreton. On behalf of all
members of the Internal Economy Committee, we extend to her
our prayers and best wishes.
CANADIAN BROADCASTING CORPORATION
YOUTH CRIMINALITYCONGRATULATIONS ON RECENT PRODUCTION

Hon. A. Raynell Andreychuk: Honourable senators, I rise
today to commend the CBC for its production entitled, Little
Criminals.

Little Criminals. which aired on Sunday, January 21, is a fine
piece of work which portrays quite accurately the complexities
surrounding the issue of youth criminality. The movie follows the

Little Criminals as a CBC in-house production came into
being thanks to the hard work and creativity of its all-Canadian
actors, writers, researchers and producers. It was filmed in
Vancouver, and its story line is a result of the extensive research
of its writer, Dennis Foon. Although fictional, the movie can be
considered a collection of true stories, as many experts attested in
The Making of Little Criminals which aired on CBC the day

before.
According to the producer, public response has been
phenomenal. In addition to receiving highly favourable reviews
from critics, 1.6 million Canadians were interested enough to
tune in. These ratings are considered by CBC to be some of the
best that that time slot could offer. Perhaps most significant is the
fact that Little Criminals has created not only awareness but
action as well. Producer Phil Savath has indicated that he has
been contacted by various groups across the country, ranging
from school groups to victim awareness groups, to crime
prevention groups. These groups have been spurred to action and
have made requests for copies of the movie, as they seek
information with regard to how they can help in the tackling of
this problem.
By producing Little Criminals without partners, the CBC was
able to reap 100 per cent of the dividends. Already, the movie has
been sold to channels in Britain and Italy, while American cable
companies have also expressed interest and are expected to buy
soon.
The CBC and all those involved in the making of Little
Criminals deserve much credit. As a viewer, I was personally
impressed and would like to commend the CBC for taking on
such a difficult and potentially controversial subject-matter. The
problems surrounding the issues of youth and youth crime need
to be addressed realistically, responsibly and in a manner that
takes into account Canadian values and experiences. Little
Criminals, and its evident impact, is to be applauded in this
regard. Let us hope its success translates into more of this type of
programming. Canadians can and will be proud of a public
broadcaster that is able to both create awareness and spur
positive action.
I do not wish to enter into the debate surrounding the recently
released Juneau report. That being said, it is my opinion,
however, that Canada can accommodate a public broadcaster that
is willing and able to deliver efficiently programming that is not
offered elsewhere.

Little Crininals shows that programming that is distinctively
different and Canadian is palatable. In this respect. Little
Criminals is a meritorjous production and may point to a possible
way ahead for the CBC.

THE HONOURABLE ROYCE FRITH Q.C.
TRIBUTE ON RETIREMENT AS
HIGH COMMISSIONER TO LONDON

Hon. M. Lorne Bonneil: Honourable senators, 1 rise te, say a
few words about a friend of' ours, His Excellency Royce Frith,
High Commissioner to London. Yesterday, 1 returned from
London, England. The former Senator Frith asked that 1 should
extend his best wishes to his honourable colleagues in this
chamber, and especially te, the Speaker. He told me that he would
like to have stayed a littie longer in his job as High
Commissioner. but that he is looking forward to having a year to
travel around his native province of' Ontario and his country of
Canada to know ail of it better. and to get a little rest for a
change.

THE HONOURABLE JOHN SYLVAIN

10 per cent more to sustain the Royal Winnipeg Ballet, the
Manitoba Theatre Centre, the Winnipeg Symphony Orchestra.
and many more professional companies. than do their
counterparts in Toronto in support of their performing arts.
0 (1020)

Support for the performing arts in Winnipeg is broad-based,
enthusiastic and loyal, which allows professional artists to
nurture their talent in relative comfort and safety.
Winnipeg-based companies have produced Evelyn Hart, John
Hirsch, and countless other performing artists. 1 should also note
that Winnipeg has also produced many renowned visual and
literary artists, including Pulitzer Prize winning author Carol
Shields.
As The Globe and Mail acknowledged, Winnipeg is a thriving
cultural centre, large enough to support a wealth of activity and
small enough for everyone to feel a part of it. I arn pleased to
represent a region of the country that. year after year. decade
after decade. affirms the value of the arts and enjoys them. 1
applaud the people and the artists of Winnipeg. 1 arn glad that
Toronto and our national newspaper have "cottoned-on" to our
secret.

TRIBUTE ON RESIGNATION FROM THE SENATE

ROUTINE PROCEEDINGS

Hon. M. Lorne Bonneli: Honourable senators. I should like to
say a few words about John Sylvain who, 1 regret. has left us.
John Sylvain was a member of the committee which 1 chair. the
Standing Senate Committee on Social Affairs, Science and
Technology. He was very active on behaîllof the veterans of this
cou ntry.

NATIONAL PROTECTED AREAS STRATEGY

John Sylvain was also a member of our NATO Parliamentary
Association. to which he made excellent contributions. especially
while at a conference in Italy.

Hon. Pat Carney, Chairman of thc Standing Senate
Committee on Energy, the Environrnent and Natural Resources,
tabled the following report:

He and bis good wife are excellent companions and great
Canadians. The members ot the House of Commons in England
asked me to pass on their regrets that he bas left the Senate and
will no longer be active in NATO.

Friday. February 2. 1996

WINNIPEG, MANITOBA
OUTSTANDING COMMUNITY SUPPORT
FOR THE PERFORMINO ARTS

Hon. Mira Spivak: Honourable senators. 1 wish to draw your
attention to a secret that the people of Manitoba have known for
a very long time and which The Globe and Mail let out of the bag
only last weekend.
Winnipeg is the performing arts capital of Canada, and
possibly of North Arnerica. That dlaim is based on the number
crunching of a Toronto consulting lirmr. Its study of performing
arts activities in North American cities found that. on a per capita
basis. Winnipeg enjoys about 75 per cent more professional
activity than Toronto. Its citi/ens privately contribute about

1,Seniatoi Aindi eN Itk 1

REPORT 0F ENERGY. THE ENVIRONMENT
AND NATURAL RESOURCES COMMITVEE TABLEI)

The Standing Senate Committee on Energy. the
Environrnent and Natural Resources bas the honour to
present its
TWENTIETH REPORT
Your Comrnittee. which was authorized by the Senate on
Wednesday. April 27, 1994, to undertake a study of the
policy options available to the government to complete the
network of pristine areas that represent Canada's natural
regions and of the creation of a National Protected Areas
Strategy and to make recommendations thereon, now
presents its report entitled Protecting Places and People:
Conserving Canada's Natural Heritage.
Respectfully subrnitted.
PAT CARNEY. P.C.
Chairinail

February 2, 1996

2609

SENATE DEBATES

2609

SENATE DEBATES

Febmarv 2. 1996

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, when shall this
report be taken into consideration?
On motion of Senator Carney, report placed on the Orders of
the Day for consideration at the next sitting of the Senate.

QUESTION PERIOD

The settlement agreement with E.H. Industries
totals $157.8 million. This includes $136.6 million for the
cost of work completed prior to termination and work in
progress at the time of termination, and $21.2 million for
termination costs.
A further $155 million was spent on project definition,
research and development and project implementation.
INDUSTRY

DELAYED ANSWERS TO ORAL QUESTIONS
Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourable senators, I have a response to
questions raised in the Senate on November 22 and 23, 1995 by
the Honourable Senator Forrestall, regarding the search and
rescue helicopter replacement program; a response to a question
raised in the Senate on November 23, 1995 by the Honourable
Senator Kinsella, regarding science and technology research; a
response to a question raised in the Senate on December 6, 1995
by the Honourable Senator Tkachuk, regarding the welfare
residency requirement in British Columbia; a response to a
question raised in the Senate on December 13, 1995 by the
Honourable Senator Gustafson, concerning western grain
marketing; and a response to a question raised in the Senate on
December 13, 1995 by the Honourable Senator Balfour,
regarding the sale of Airbus aircraft to Air Canada.

SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH-CUTS
TO BUDGET-TIMING FOR RELEASE OF
STUDY-GOVERNMENT POLICY

(Response to question raised by Hon. Nôel A. Kinsella on

November 23, 1995)
The government plans to announce its science and
technology strategy in the near future. We will be setting out
a response to a far-reaching review of S&T which included
consultations in communities across Canada, an internal
review of federal S&T policies and programs, and a report
by the National Advisory Board on Science and Technology.
The strategy will re-enforce S&T as a priority for this
government. It will advance the critical role played by S&T
in relation to the health and well-being of Canadians,

TRANSPORT
SEARCH AND RESCUE HELICOPTER REPLACEMENT
PROGRAM-STATUS OF EH-101 CONTRACT-NATURE
OF MILESTONE PAYMENTS-GOVERNMENT POSITION

(Response to questions raised bv Hon. J. Michael Forrestall
on November 22 and 23, 1995)
On November 5, 1993, following a promise outlined in

the Government's Red Book, to cancel the $5.8-billion
EH-101 helicopter program, termination notices were issued
to the two prime contractors: EH Industries Limited and
Paramax Systems Canada Incorporated (subsequently
Unisys GSG and now Loral Systems Canada Incorporated).
The settlement agreement with Loral Systems Canada
which was announced publicly on March 31, 1995,
totalled $166 million. It included the amounts due to Loral,
its subcontractors and suppliers. Of the amount, $98 million
was for work completed prior to termination and the balance
of $68 million was for work in progress at the time of
termination and termination costs.
On January 23, 1996, the details of the settlement
agreement reached between the Government of Canada and
E.H. Industries Limited were made public.

sustainable job creation and economic growth, and the
advancement of knowledge.
Objectives and principles for guiding federal S&T
activities and initiatives will be part of the strategy. We will
increase the effectiveness of federal S&T research by
emphasizing scientific excellence, full value for money and
the dissemination of knowledge and technology throughout
the Canadian economy.

HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT
BRITISH COLUMBIA-IMPOSITION OF WAITING PERIOD FOR
PAYMENTS UNDER CANADA ASSISTANCE PLAN-SUSPENSION
OF TRANSFER PAYMENTS-GOVERNMENT POSITION

(Response to question raised bv the Hon. David Tkachuk on
December 6, 1995)

Pursuant to the provisions of the Canada Assistance Plan,
(RSC, 1985, c. C-1, s.6(2), an agreement between each
province and the Govemment of Canada shall provide that

the province a) will provide financial aid or other assistance
to or in respect of any person in the province who is a
person in need... and d) will not require a period of
residence in the province as a condition of eligibility for
assistance or for the receipt or continued receipt thereof.

In the case of' Findlav v. Canada. (1989, 57 DLR. <4th).
230, confirmed by the Federal Court in 71 DLR. (4th) 422)
the Federal Court determined that where a province (in that
case Manitoba) is in breach of its agreement with Canada
under CAP it is illegal for Canada to make payments to the
province under the Canada Assistance Plan as long as the
breach continues.
Thus, according to the precedent set in the Findla'v case,
it would be illegal for Canada to make payments to the
Government of British Columbia under the Canada
Assistance Plan as long as the province continued in breach
of its CAP agreenment by having residency requirements l'or
eligibility for social assistance.

ORDERS 0F THE DAY
CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENTS BILL,
REPORT 0F COMMITTEE

VOTE DEFERRED

On the Order:
Resuming the debate on the motion of the Honourable
Senator Kinsella f'or the adoption of the Report of the
Special Committee on Bill C-l10, respecting constitutional
amendments. with amendiments.

Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
AGRICULTURE
WESTERN GRAIN MARKETING POSSIBILITY
0F NATIONAL PLEBISCITE GOVERNMENT POSITION

(Response to a question raised bY Hon. Leonard J. Gust(ifson
on Decemiber 13, 1995)
The Western Grain Marketing Panel has conducted a
series of town hall meetings across western Canada. These
meetings concluded on January 26, 1996. They provided
tarmers with the opportunity to express their views
regarding the strengths and weaknesses of' Canada's current
grain marketing system and what features they would like to
sec in the system of' the future.
The Panel will now hold formai hearings in Winnipeg.
during the period March Il to 22. 1996. These hearings are
being held l'or farmers and organizations to advance their
arguments and supporting evidence for or against different
marketing methodologies which wiII be subject to
examination and cross-examination.
The Panel is to present its final report to the Minister by
the end of June. 1996.

JUSTICE
SALE 0F AIRBUS AIRCRAFT TO AIR CANADAALLEGED CONSPIRACY TO DEFRAUD FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT-STAGE 0F TREATY WITH SWITZERLAND
AT TIME 0F REQUESI GOVERNMENT POSITION

(Resp)onse to question raised bY Hon. R. Jaines Balfour on
Deceniber 13, 1995)
The letter of request in the Airbus investigation was sent
to Switzeriand on September 29, 1995. This was a
non-treaty request. At that time. a mutual legal assistance
treaty between Canada and Switzerland had been negotiated
but was not in effect. Thc treaty came into etiect on
November 17. 1995.

1Scni

o!(ý ahaîni 1
G

Government): Honourable senators. during the referendum
campaign last tail. the Prime Minister spoke of his commitment
to recognize Quebec as a distinct society. and to make
constitutional change contingent on a regional consensus. In my
judgment. this was a fair-minded promise to renew our fedieration
which was. in pan., made to encourage and support ail those who
voted "no" to secession. We must remember that, first and
foremost, this was a basic act of' reassurance to the people of
Quebec.
The challenge of building consensus will always be with us. it
is a daunting challenge. In the quest to achieve a greater balance
within our fedieration. and in our efforts to create a better
understanding between aIl of' our citizens. Bill C-I 110 represents
our pledge not to proceed with constitutional change without the
support of each of our great regions.
As the Prime Minister has repeatedly explained, this modest
legisiation is basically a commonsense bridging approach to the
rekindling of a spirit of cooperation and tolerance in our country.
Honourable senators probably do Bot need to be reminded that.
in our country, the practice of politics has become almost more
dangerous than war. Winston Churchill once said this to
emphasize that: in war, you are killed only once. In fact. the
game in Canada has become so deadly, the tone of our political
hIfe at limes so sour. that even a modest and fair-minded measure
such as the bill before us is deemed to give 100 much to some
Canadians and too little to other Canadians.
Bill C-I 110 is an attempt at drafting a little more equity into our
tedieration, and yet its appearance draws criticism from aIl those
players who think in the interests of the short term. in the
self'-interest of one region or another. of one player in one region
against another in the same region.
This sellf-centred approach is the opposite of the generosity of'
spirit which led to the creation of this great country. Ask any of'
the thousands ot people who wait in immigration offices around
the world what a Red Maple Leaf' symbolizes for them. 1 have
seen it personally, and 1 have heard il firsthand trom people who
have treasured the presence of our peacekeepers in places such as
Nicaraguia and on the Angolan border. It symbolizes promise. it
symbholizes tolerance. i( sy mbolizes hope. it symbolizes
gerosity. Most ol'ail, il does not svmbholize sellfishness.

Februarv 2, 1996
February

2,

1996

SENATE DEBATES
EAE
SNT

Perhaps it is time that we all took a look at ourselves in the
looking-glass of the world community, in order to get a better
sense of the real truths about ourselves and about the real
meaning of being Canadian.
Canada has been conceived and has evolved on an
infrastructure of hope. Bill C-110 is a modest addition, on a
temporary basis, to that infrastructure. It represents no structural
shifts in the foundations of our country. We must remember that
this regional veto is only one of the building blocks in the larger
national unity design. It does not imply permanence or finality,
nor is it meant to be a measure that addresses the constitutional
aspirations of all parties in the federation.
S(103o)

It is simply a reminder to all Canadians that we are a real
country, and that although one of the principal players argues
differently and falsely, the Govemment of Canada will continue
to guard and protect their interests. It is a challenge to
secessionists to explain to all those Quebecers who do not share
their views and who opt for Canada, why they will not accept
what for so long Quebec has wanted. In this respect, Bill C-110
is the proverbial velvet glove concealing the iron hand.

In a speech I gave on the unity issue in this chamber on
December 12, I pointed out that too many voices across Canada
see federalism as what bas been called by some a "zero-sum"
game. In other words, the voices say, "We want more, always
more. What is more for us is less for you. What is less for us is
more for you." In this kind of mug's game, we will all be losers
and we will be losers forever.
As these voices become more numerous in our country, the
resolve and will to be Canadian, the spiritual glue of our country,
becomes debilitated and weakened. We must remember that
countries are often lost when people surrender, and where they
surrender first is in their hearts and in their minds.
It was once said - by Abraham Lincoln, I believe - that he
has a right to criticize who bas a heart to help. Selfishness within
and amongst the regional alignments in this country is the
gravest threat that we face today, not just because of the unity
issue but - what is even more important - because it imperils
the national soul.

Honourable senators, when Minister Rock appeared before our
committee, he fairly and forcefully dealt with the fears expressed
by many Canadians over the intent of the government with
regard to this legislation. Many legitimate concerns about the
significance of Bill C- 110 have been put forward throughout the
country. I refer to only a few examples raised in the ongoing
discussions over the last few weeks.

In the Atlantic region, much needed signs of cooperation serve
as portents of hope. Nova Scotia's Premier John Savage and New
Brunswick's Premier Frank McKenna have agreed to extend to
Premier Catherine Callbeck and Prince Edward Island full status
where they think it is essential under the prospective veto rule. In
this regard, the Atlantic provinces have exercised one of the
basic principles of successful negotiation. They have taken the
interests of the other parties into account - a simple truth
indeed, but perhaps one of the most important truths in the
ongoing struggle to revitalize our federation. However, it must be
emulated by all those who presently feel that criticism is a right,
but that a heart to help is unnecessary.

There has been a fear that the bill constitutes an attempt by the
Government of Canada to unilaterally alter the present
constitutional amending procedure. There have been important
and legitimate fears and concerns raised by our aboriginal
people, such as the concem that the effect of the bill is to exclude
them from the amendment process. I believe Minister Rock has
put to rest the bulk of these concerns in an honest and
fair-minded fashion.

Recently, I heard a wise man talk about how you treat people
equally and/or the same. He was responding to a presentation by
a leader in one of the regions of the country who was asserting,
even complaining, that his province wanted to be treated equally,
the same as every other province. My friend responded by saying
that he had three daughters. He treated them all equally but not
necessarily the same, because they had different needs. I believe
the same analogy can be applied to our regions - equal but not
necessarily the same.

As I have said, honourable senators, Bill C-110 is part of the
infrastructure of hope. It is meant as a reminder to all those who
doubt and who have lost conviction or, in some cases, who
despair about the future of Canada, that this country has been
built to outlast its enemies. It is meant as a reminder that the
federal government will exert friendly pressures - the best kind,
as Lester B. Pearson once observed - to ensure that it is not
such an easy target for its enemies. We must never forget this,
because there are many voices in our federation telling us that the
dream is impossible. They say that cooperation cannot be
possible because every gain for one region means an equal loss
for another region.

Honourable senators, we must remember that the Red Maple
Leaf which flies over this united country is a symbol of hope for
millions of people the world over. We must not fail because of
mean spiritedness or rancour or lack of will to insure that it flies
forever, not over a vast, zero-sum game, but over a united
Canadian dream based on tolerance, on justice, on cooperation
and on compromise.
Honourable senators, Bill C- 110 is part of the infrastructure of
hope. As such, for all those who have the heart to help, it is an
indispensable building block in a re-imagined Canada which will
leave the old world behind.

Hon. Consiglio Di Nino: Honourable senators, in the past. I
supported the Meech Lake Accord; I participated in the debates
on the Charlottetown Agreement and its promotion. In fact. the
Metro Toronto area, where I made some small contribution
during that referendum, is one of the few areas of the country
where the accord was accepted. I have often spoken on behalf of,
and in support of. Quebec's distinctiveness, as well as Quebec's
importance to Canada. Frankly, I doubt Canada would be a
country without Quebec.
0

(104oi

I have always maintained that the main difference between the
USA and Canada is the French factor. However, I have a number
of concerns about the unity package, this "peace offering" made
by Prime Minister Chrétien to Quebecers, including the bill we
are debating. This offer is an ill-conceived, knee-jerk reaction to
the federal government's failures during the months preceding
the Quebec referendum. Those failures nearly cost us our
country.
This package of goodies to try to appease Quebecers does no
such thing. I do not believe the majority of Quebecers support
Mr. Chrétien's offer. Canadians across this country mirror their
sentiments, albeit in some cases for different reasons.
The hastiness with which these goodies were put together
without consultation and the closing off of debate in the other
place has aroused the anger of many Canadians, including many
political leaders. The manner in which this offer was conceived
and rammed through the House is both disrespectful and
contemptuous. It has further alienated some regions of our
country, resulting in further dividing some communities, and it
may very well damage attempts at real negotiations to keep
Canada together.
Many Canadians are losing their tolerance for meaningful
reconciliation, and the actions of this government are not
helping. This offer to Quebec reinforces the fact that the Liberals
have no agenda, no policy, no real plan to deal with the Quebec
issue. Mr. Chrétien should have taken the advice of Mr. Charest
and others who asked for a period of time to let us catch our
breath and reflect in a calm and tranquil manner before plunging
once more into the turbulent waters of constitutional reform.
Honourable senators, the problem is really not insurmountable.
In my opinion, the real problem is that Canadians do not know
each other very well. It is not accidental that the Montreal area
voted overwhelmingly in favour of the "No" side. This is the area
of Quebec where Canadians of all backgrounds have had more
opportunity to meet and to get to know each other better. Finding
opportunities for Canadians to get to know each other is not a
difficult challenge; it is one which we should take on.
Honourable senators, one of my main concerns is that these
debates seem to be an emotional dialogue between the federal
government and French-speaking Canadians in Quebec. At
times, it seems to be more about revenge than justice, more about
politics and turf than people and their needs.

I am told that recognizing Quebec as a distinct society is about
identity. I repeat that I have supported, and continue to support,
this notion because it only recognizes reality. Distinct society
does not confer special privileges; it only recognizes what is a
fact. However, when we raise the question of identity, then we
must talk about the identity of Canadians. ail Canadians,
including aboriginal communities and Canadians whose
background is neither English nor French. For obvious reasons.
the dialogue has been about Quebec, Quebec culture and the two
founding nations. This has been going on for such a long time
that Canadians of other backgrounds, including First Nations.
have felt excluded. These Canadians have as much of a stake as
everyone else in Canada's future and are committed to a united
and strong country. In future discourses, they must be included to
ensure that their place and their role is both recognized and
assured. I have no doubt that most Canadians would welcome the
just and equal treatment of all other Canadians who. in turn.
mostly accept the cultural, language and civil law reality in
Quebec.
In al] of these unity debates, seldom if ever are communities
other than those of French or English background made to feel
part of the process. Maybe it is right to ask, as aboriginal
communities have asked, who is included? Are all Canadians
equal? Are some more equal than others? When other
communities have been included as a part of the debate. it has
often been in negative terms. We heard Mr. Bouchard talk about
"ýwhite babies." We heard Mr. Parizeau accuse "ethnics" of being
responsible for the "No" side win. We heard Mr. Landry insulting
and disparaging new Canadians. Too many others have made
similar remarks. These kinds of accusations seem to be too
frequent. and for those of us who passed through those dark days
of discrimination, and for those among us who are today
suffering from discriminatory practices, these accusing and
irresponsible statements echo the silent alarms of discomfort and
fear felt by some of us in the past.
What is this word "ethnic" or, for that matter, "multicultural"?
When I walk down the street, do people point and say, "There
goes an "ethnic," or "Hey, look at that multicultural"? When I
came to Canada, I did not know I was a multicultural or an
ethnic. Do these terms make me better or worse than others?
When I swore the oath of allegiance, I thought I would be a
Canadian like everyone else. Little criticism has been heard and only from a few of our political leaders - about these
people who speak so callously and so contemptuously of other
Canadians.
Because this unity dialogue has gone on for so long and
because, understandably, the attention has been on Quebec's
wonderful culture, primarily focused on English-French issues,
other communities are beginning to question and to ask whether
their presence, their contributions, their values, have any
meaning in this whole dialogue. Little or no public discourse has
dealt with the valuable contribution made by the rainbow of
cultures which continues to help make Canada what it is today the best country in the world - a fact that seems to be lost in this
long and acrimonious debate.

February 2, 1996

February 2. 1996

SENATE DEBATES

SENATE DEBATES

This bill and the whole unity package being offered to Quebec
not only does not make a meaningful and substantive
contribution to solving the problem, it may damage the
opportunity for reconciliation because it was conceived without
due thought and without consultation with Canadians who care
fervently about Canada and who, by omission or commission, are
being left out.
It seems to me this government is desperate and has nothing
better to offer. Mr. Chrétien should reach out to Canadians, all
Canadians. They can help him. They have the answers. Some, as
Senator Graham bas just done, will make spirited and eloquent
speeches in support of Bill C-110, but apart from the Prime
Minister and his flock, who is in favour of this bill?
Remember, this is the same gang who defeated the Meech
Lake Accord, gave lukewarm support to the Charlottetown
Agreement and who, during the referendum, said to us: "Shut up
and trust us; we know what is best for you." Look what
happened.
Honourable senators, I think we should send the whole
package back to the other place and ask the government to take
more seriously its responsibilities to Canadians.
Hon. Anne C. Cools: Honourable senators, my seatmate,
Senator Charlie Watt, had intended to participate in this debate
but has been delayed in arriving. He is presently in transit, and
called me to ask that I read into the record on his behalf a letter
from the Inuit Tapirisat of Canada, or ITC, articulating their
position on Bill C- 110.
The letter is written and signed by Mary Sillett, the
vice-president of ITC. It is addressed to Senator Watt and dated
February 2, 1996. With the Senate's indulgence, I shail read this
letter in its entirety, thus:
Dear Senator Watt,
We have reviewed the amendments proposed to
Bill C- 110, "An Act respecting constitutional amendments"
tabled in the Senate by the Special Senate Committee and
we wish to inform you of ITC's position.
ITC re-iterates our first preference that the federal
government should withdraw this Bill in its entirety because
it is unconstitutional and because it is not conducive to
national unity in the long term.
Furthermore, the federal government should be retaining its
current powers to respond, and to speak in its own
Parliament, through proposed constitutional amendments, in
the event of a 'yes' vote. Whatever the federal government's
national unity strategy, there is no guarantee that it will
forestall another referendum. This means the risks attendant
to a 'yes' vote, however small or large, are still with us.
Why should the federal government in any way be

2613

2613

weakening its ability to act on behalf of all Canadians in its
own Parliament?
Nevertheless, we urge you to vote in favour of proposed
amendment number 2 of the Committee's Report. This
amendment to clause 1 of Bill C-I 10 would provide at least
some protection to our position in any future constitutional
reform negotiations. Unfortunately, the proposed
amendments do not preserve our current constitutional
position in its totality. We point out the following
shortcomings:
1) the amendment proposed as a new subsection 1(3) to
the Act should have referred generally to any proposed
amendment referring to aboriginal peoples or aboriginal and
treaty rights in order to cover amendments outside the
sections named (you may recall that in the Charlottetown
Accord, the proposed amendment on recognition of
aboriginal peoples governments as one of three orders of
government and proposed protections or recognition of
aboriginal language and cultural rights did not fall in any of
the sections named in this Bill but rather were contained in
proposed new sections to the Constitution including new
sections of the Constitution Act, 1867 and the Constitution
Act, 1982);
2) at a minimum there should have been a reference
generally to any amendments to Part II of the Constitution
Act, 1982 rather than listing specific sections of Part II as is
done in proposed paragraph 1(3)(b) - (again you may
recall that during the negotiation of the Charlottetown
Accord, it was Inuit who first proposed and who
successfully argued for the recognition of the inherent right
of self-government as a new section to Part II rather than
including it as a subsection to s.35 - in order to avoid any
extinguishment arguments arising from the word 'existing'
in s.35(1)).
Finally we wish to comment on some important strategic
questions raised by the proposed sunset clause calling for
the expiry of the Act on December 31, 1997. The addition
of an expiry date suggests that the legislation is a temporary
measure pending a constitutional conference in 1997. At
such a conference, Quebec's approval and that of the other
provinces and regions would be required under Bill C-110
for any proposed amendment to proceed. Under the
proposed amendments, Quebec's approval would have to be
secured through the provincial legislative assembly.
Securing Quebec's approval at the 1997 conference for
anything aimed at national unity does not seem at all likely
given Premier Bouchard's statements (both as Premier and
as the former Leader of the Bloc Québécois) that he does
not support participating in any constitutional negotiations
before another referendum in Quebec on separation.

Because Bill C-I10 would severely hamper the federal
government's ability to respond to a possible 'yes' vote,
perhaps this amendment inadvertently will suggest to the
Parti Quebecois a possible deadline by which it should hold
another referendum in order to retain this advantage.

he approached quite a number of the items under discussion. I
will not say I was surprised. Of course, Senator Beaudoin was
very valuable. as was Senator Rivest and the others. We learned.
of course. from Senator St. Germain the value of
non-partisanship. It has infected even me in my approach.

On the other hand, if the 1997 constitutional conference
does not produce an amendment entrenching the Bill C-I 10
vetoes, and if another referendum is not held by
December 31, 1997, then the federal government's current
powers to table proposed constitutional amendments to deal
with any constitutional crisis generated by a referendum
held after that date would be preserved.

I followed or examined Bill C-1 10 [rom a very limited
perspective; that was the perspective of a parliamentary
practitioner: how would it work, and how would Bill C-110
potentially affect the constitutional process in the future? Many
witnesses had differing perspectives. Some had expected that
Bill C-1 10 somehow would meet ail the constitutional aspirations
of Quebec. of the west. and of the aboriginals, to name a few
examples. Naturally, they would be deeply disappointed because
Bill C- 110 did not do that. It was not intended to do that. It had a
very limited purpose.

We ask you to convey our position to your colleagues in
the Senate and urge them also to vote in favour of proposed
amendment number 2 of the Senate Committee's report. We
will be sending copies to the Prime Minister as well as to
Senator Kinsella. Minister Dion, Minister Irwin and
Minister Rock.
Sincerely,
Mary Sillett,
Vice-President
Honourable senators, as I have said before, Senator Watt had
calied me and asked me if I would do him the favour of reading
this letter into the record. It was not my intention to participate in
this debate on Bill C-1 10, but I thought a colleague deserved this
consideration. For me, it is an honour to do a small service for
the Inuit people of Canada.
Senator St. Germain: Will you support the amendment,
senator?
Hon. Allan J. MacEachen: Honourable senators, I should like
to begin by congratulating the committee and its chairman for the
work that the committee did in the examination of Bill C-110. I
certainly was impressed with the work of the committee. It
renewed my appreciation of the potential value of Senate
committees.
The committee was a good committee. On our side, I was
pleased to work with Senator Marchand and Senator De Bané.
with whom I served in the House of Commons and in the
Government of Canada, and with Senator Gauthier with whom I
worked in the House of Commons. Senator Carstairs was not part
of my past history, but her perspective on the committee was
always present and always valuable.
I will depart from a rule I have had for a long time, which was
never to praise my political opponents in public. I did not mind
doing it in private, but in public it was a different matter.
However. I must say that I was impressed by the members ot the
opposition, each of whom brought a very important perspective
to the work of the committee, particularly Senator Murray. who
certainly showed objectivity and understanding, even vision, as

1 Senaloir Cools I

It was from that perspective that I viewed the bill. Many of the
witnesses, I found, burdened the bill with their expectations. and
when their expectations were not fulfilled. they found that the
bill had many shortcomings. Minister Rock, in his appearance
before the committee, made it clear that the bill is modest.
limited and procedural. I certainly agreed that it is procedural.
• (moo)>

I remember an old standing order of the House of Commons.
Standing Order No. 33 conf'erred a right on a minister to move
closure, a right enjoyed by no other member of the House of
Commons. That was the conferring of a parliamentary right. This
bill really establishes a parliamentary prohibition upon a minister
of the Crown; that is, a minister cannot move a constitutional
amendment without the consent of ail the regions. Mr. Rock
inferred that this objective could have been achieved by a
declaration of government policy. This government and the
Prime Minister could have said that they will never introduce a
constitutional amendment unless there is consent [rom ail the
regions. That would have done the job. From a technical point of
view, it would have lacked the political impact of parliamentary
action. It would have lacked the transparency of parliamentary
action. It could have been done by changing the standing order to
read that no minister will move a constitutional amendment
except in such circumstances.
Honourable senators, I can understand why these options were
discarded in lavour of a bill which, in its simplest form, prohibits
a minister from moving a constitutional amendment except in
particular circumstances. Bill C- 110, in a sense, declares in a
profound way the policy of the Prime Minister that no bill will be
introduced by himself or his ministers unless these conditions are
met. That declaration in the bill is a response to the crisis in
Quebec. It is intended to be a powerful political message that, in
the future, this government will never act to amend the
Constitution without the consent of Quebec, period.
Honourable senators, I must say that I agreed with the analysis
made by the chairman of the committee in saying that fulfilling
the rule established in Bill C- 110 would require a higher level of
consensus than is presently required in the Constitutii. The
chairman of the conmittee. Senator Kinsella. said that it would

February 2, 1996

February 2, 1996

SENATE DEBATES

SENATE DEBATES

require seven provinces representing 94 per cent of the
population of Canada. I do not quarrel with that. However, that
result flows from a limitation on ministerial action. It does not
limit the ability of a member of the House of Commons to
introduce a constitutional amendment; it does not limit the right
of a senator to introduce a constitutional amendment; nor indeed
does it limit the right of a provincial legislature or a premier.
In the committee, I explored the possibility of moving ahead
with a constitutional amendment at a lower level of consensus
than that required by Bill C-110. That is possible. There is no
prohibition on securing a constitutional amendment under the
lower hurdle of 7/50. I think that is important to bear in mind
from a procedural point of view. I am talking about the process
and what is possible procedurally. I am not judging what may be
politically possible in the future, or what political circumstances
may recommend particular courses of action.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Bill C- 110, I say that
constitutional amendments could go forward at a lower level of
consensus provided by the current Constitution, which requires
seven provinces representing 50 per cent of the people. I can
foresee circumstances in which that would happen, and could
happen. It might be a good thing if it did happen.
Taken together, honourable senators, Bill C-110 and the
Constitution provide protection for Quebec in the way the Prime
Minister suggested, and allow for changes beneficial to Quebec
to go forward under the 7/50 formula in particular circumstances.
Senator Rivest and others on the committee talked about the
protection that this would provide to Quebec. We agreed that that
was the intent, but raised the point that the higher hurdle would
prevent changes beneficial to Quebec from occurring. My answer
is "not necessarily so" because such changes could happen,
procedurally at least, under the 7/50 formula.
Nothing in Bill C-110 prevents the federal govemment from
launching a constitutional process and putting proposals before
the provincial governments for constitutional change.
Presumably that must happen in 1997 under the present
framework.
The federal govemment, in line with Bill C-110, will have to
strive for maximum consensus; namely, the Prime Minister will
say, "I cannot introduce a constitutional change under Bill C- 110
unless I have all the regions with me." However, suppose a single
region were to withhold its consent? What happens then? Has the
process come to a dead halt? The federal govemment and the
Prime Minister have done their best, and they have reached that
point in the discussion where one region says "no." We know
that the federal govemment cannot introduce a motion, but the
Premier of Ontario could, as could the Premier of Quebec, or the
Leader of the Opposition in the Senate or in the House of
Commons, or any other member. Constitutional change could
conceivably go ahead under the 7/50 formula.
I put this question to one of our constitutional experts. In such
circumstances, I said, there would be nothing to prevent

2615

2615

ministers and government supporters from supporting that
constitutional amendment. Nothing in the law provides for
anything except a prohibition on ministerial action. This
particular constitutional authority said, "That would be against
the spirit of the law." That shook me a bit, but I was sure another
constitutional expert would disagree with that view, and it did
happen with the very next expert.
*(IloI)

I then said, "What about the spirit of the law?" He replied,
"All that is possible. Your outline is possible." I then repeated:
"What about the spirit of the law?" He said, "When you talk
about the spirit, you are talking about the spirit world. I am
talking about the legal world, and in the legal world it is possible.
I put that forward to you as my conclusion."
I understand that the right and favourable political
circumstances must exist in order for this to happen, but what if
much progress was made at a constitutional conference, and an
amendment of particular interest to Quebec was opposed by one
region of the country?
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable Senator MacEachen, I
hesitate to interrupt you, but the 15-minute period is over.
An Hon. Senator: Let him continue.
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, is leave granted
for the honourable senator to continue?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Senator MacEachen: If at that stage there is an amendment
that is of interest to Quebec and suddenly a region says "no,"
obviously the federal government cannot introduce a resolution.
However, there is another alternative, which brings me to this
tricky question of consent. It is alleged that the bill is ambiguous
because it does not say from which entity consent will be sought
before a resolution can be introduced in the Parliament of
Canada. Will it be the consent of the government, or of the
legislature, or of the people? That is unclear, and it is intended to
be remedied by the amendment proposed by the committee,
namely, that you must have the consent of the legislature of the
provinces - that is, everyone, so to speak - before the federal
government could introduce a motion.
That consent is not the consent of a province to a
constitutional amendment. That is a different beast altogether.
The consent here is merely a consent to introduce a resolution in
Parliament. If that consent is not forthcoming, a particular region
says, "No. We do not agree. We do not give the government's
consent. We will not put a resolution before the legislature," and
the process is stopped. At this point, the federal government, not
having received the consent of the government or govemments
of a region, or of the legislature, could seek the consent of the
people in a referendum. If a referendum were held

and the people said, "Yes, we agree with this particular
constitutional amendment," then the federal government could
introduce a constitutional amendment in the Parliament of
Canada. That would bc all.
That, in itself. would be a powerful symbol to a province like
Quebec, yearning for particular change. If the people of a region
said. "We agree with that," it would be a powerful message in
itself. However, it would not change the Constitution. not at all.
At no point does this bill remove from a legislature the
necessity of passing a resolution which gives its consent to a
constitutional amendment. The legislature is never bypassed. It
cannot be bypassed because it is in the Constitution that
legislative action is required for a constitutional amendment.
You would then say, "Well, what is the point of having a
referendum? The people say "yes," and the government has said
"no". Honourable senators will have noticed an interesting
discussion in the committee, in which Mr. Ryan and Senator
Murray participated, about the political results of that type of
situation, namely, if the people in a region were saying, "Go
ahead. Put your resolution in Parliament," but the govemment or
governments were saying "no." Mr. Ryan argued that, if that
happened in Quebec, the Government of Quebec would act with
greater restraint if it had refused, in that case, to give consent to
the Government of Canada to introduce a resolution. He then
went on to say. "Well, there could be. It would become a political
problem or a political issue in the province which might be
resolved by an election." However, this instrument in the hand of
the federal govemment, namely, going to the people, will never
bypass the legislature in consolidating a constitutional
amendment, but it bas a political potential that may be useful.
I was not consulted about the bill, but I would think that is
why it is there, namely, to advance the constitutional process by
going to the people when you think that there is a possibility that
the people will support an improvement when the government
will not take any action. It provides some momentum.
I understand the arguments that have been made, but I am
simply saying that the committee has recommended to the Senate
that we remove this possibility of referendum in this context. and
that the Government of Canada could only move with the
consent of the legislature. I regard that as not a good amendment
because it removes a possibility of referendum action that might
be useful in a political situation. However, at no time, as I
understand it, would it bypass the legislature in achieving a
constitutional amendment. The government may reconsider as a
result of the referendum; the legislature may reconsider and
legislative action would be taken. That is my procedural analysis.
All this must be considered in a particular political context.
My colleagues have dealt with the aboriginal situation, and I
will not add to it. However, let me say a word about the expiry
date. Senator Kinsella used the word "kill" in connection with
this amendment. Instead of "kill now" he says "kill later." Why

1Senatoi

MacEachen j

not kill the bill now rather than at the end of December, 1997?
The effect of that amendment will bc to kill the bill two years
hence. Right? There is no doubt about it. So why have it in the
meantime? Why not kilt it now?
Some Hon. Senators: Good idea.
Senator MacEachen: The committee reported the bill with
amendments. One of them was to kill the bill - not now, but
later. The committee did not recommend to kill it now because it
must sec some merit in the notion of giving protection to Quebec
against any amendment that would be introduced against its will.
Otherwise. they would kill it now. Why kill it later, when you
have no guarantee that anything will have been put in its place?
That is what worries me about that amendment. You could
have said that the bill would expire when an equivalent provision
had been provided in the Constitution. Instead, you want to say
to Quebec that they are protected, but only until the end of 1997.
If the Constitution bas not been changed by then, the minimum
protection provided in Bill C-1 10 will fall to the ground. I do not
like that. I would like to sec the protection continue until some
equivalent agreement is reached.
I hope, Senator St. Germain, that I have lived up to your
enjoinder of non-partisanship. I have stuck to a procedural
analysis.
Hon. Lowell Murray: Honourable senators. I had not
intended to take part in this debate, and I shall not detain you for
very long. You will be disappointed if you expect me to live up
to Senator MacEachen's description of my contribution as
"visionary." but I do hope you will find in my remarks some
objectivity.
I would speak first about the protection which this bill offers to
Quebec. Senator MacEachen, speaking as he bas from the
perspective of a parliamentary practitioner, outlined to us the
bill's flexibility and the many ways in which an end run can be
effected around the bill. In doing so. he underlines the
inadequacy of the protection that the bill offers to Quebec or to
anyone else.
He points out that the bill is a restraint only on ministers of the
Crown. Private members of the House of Commons or of the
Senate can initiate resolutions for constitutional amendments.
Ministers of the Crown could even support such resolutions. The
only restraint is that ministers of the Crown would not be able to
introduce such a resolution. It seems to me that he is giving some
aid and comfort to those in Quebec who see the bill as an entirely
inadequate protection of their interests.
If the first ministers achieve agreement on an amending
formula in 1997. then of course the bill will no longer be
necessary. First ministers must have unanimity in-order to
achieve any change in the amending formula. This bill does not
affect that process.

February 2, 1996

Februarv2. 1996

SENATE DEBATES

SENATE DEBATES

2617

2617

I am, however, concerned that this bilL by erecting the higher
hurdle it bas, would make it more difficult, perhaps even
impossible, one day to entrench the recognition of Quebec's
distinctiveness in the Constitution. That is only one of the
reasons why I do not want to see Bill C- 110 as a permanent part
of the constitutional landscape in this country.

it entirely in the hands of the federal government to decide,
province by province - or indeed amendment by amendment what constitutes adequate consent. I do not think that is very
good legislative practice. It is even worse as constitutional
practice, and worse still in terms of federal-provincial relations
and the harmony that we want to promote in this country.

If the first ministers, in 1997, fail to achieve agreement on a
new amending formula, the federal government and the federal
Parliament will have to consider another approach. It may well
be that another bill or another resolution or another policy
statement by the federal government and the federal Parliament
will have to be brought forward.

With those few words, honourable senators, I declare my
support for the report presented by our colleague Senator
Kinsella.

Bill C-110, as a practical matter, cannot last. It is a change to
the amending process which bas been unilaterally decided by the
federal government and Parliament against the opposition of
several provinces. We know that British Columbia is opposed
because their minister came to the committee and told us so. The
Premier of Alberta bas indicated his opposition. Saskatchewan
and Manitoba which, in the early going, seemed to have good
things to say about Bill C- 110 in its original form, have backed
off from their early support for the bill. That is quite an
insufficient consensus in a country like this for a permanent
change in the amending process.
It seems to me it would be bad federal-provincial relations,
bad for the future constitutional development of the country and
bad for national unity to leave Bill C-110 in place longer than
December 31, 1997, if the first ministers have failed to achieve
agreement on an amending formula. If, unfortunately, they
cannot agree in 1997, we must revisit this situation, and revisit
Bill C- 110, in the light of the situation that will then exist.
Since I proposed the amendments on behalf of my colleagues,
I have no difficulty whatever in supporting the proposed sunset
clause; nor indeed do I have any difficulty supporting the
non-derogation clause in respect of aboriginal rights. I have
listened to the letter read by our colleague Senator Cools earlier.
I am also aware of the arguments put forward quite logically by
Minister Rock and by the Associate Deputy Minister of Justice
Ms Dawson to the effect that aboriginal rights are already
protected. However, the aboriginal leaders who want an
amendment have told us, as we have been told by minorities
many times: If that is true, why not put it into the bill, and
confirm and secure the protection of our rights in this legislation?
Therefore, out of an abundance of caution, if you like, we
decided that we would propose the non-derogation clause in
respect of aboriginal rights.
With regard to the method of obtaining consent, the bill is far
too flexible in that regard. It would enable the federal
government, in respect of the same amendment, to take a
different approach with different provinces. The Prime Minister
could say that, in the case of Nova Scotia, he would accept a
letter from the premier as sufficient consent, but from New
Brunswick, only a resolution of the legislature will be sufficient,
and from Quebec, only a referendum will suffice. The bill leaves

Hon. Gerry St. Germain: Honourable senators, I seek to ask
a question of Senator MacEachen relating to Mr. Ryan's
evidence.
Both Senator Murray and Senator MacEachen have had great
exposure to Mr. Ryan, to his past experience and to his ability to
deal with issues of this nature.

On this question of consent, why would the government not be
listening to someone who is living day-to-day in the fray with the
separatists and who knows first hand the reaction of Quebecers?
I understand the present leader of the Liberal Party, Mr. Johnson,
is also opposed to the flexibility in the bill with regard to
consent. All these people are great Liberals. I am certain they
would not exercise partisanship.
Why does the honourable senator think that this would be
ignored? He pointed out so deftly in his closing remarks the
divisiveness that this could cause in dealing with future
constitutional amendments in this country.
Senator Murray: Honourable senators, there is a long history
to this question of referenda. As long ago as the 1981-82 process,
a proposal for referenda was on the table as part of the formal
amending process, and it fell off. At the time, Prime Minister
Trudeau wanted to keep in hand the possibility of a referendum
to break the deadlock that existed among the first ministers.
There is much history to the discussion of referenda.
In the present circumstances, the government decided that it
wanted to leave open the possibility of going over the heads of a
Parti Québécois government in Quebec City and a legislature
which bas a majority for the sovereigntist party, and appeal
directly to the people in this process. As a parenthetical
comment, I should say that the government already has the right
and the power to hold a referendum in Canada, or any part of
Canada, thanks to the legislation passed back in 1993.
I think it is predictable that, if the federal govemment invoked
that possibility, it would get the backs up in Quebec, not just of
the separatists but the federalists as well. There are Quebecers
who can speak more authoritatively about this than I, but
Quebecers have invested in the Quebec legislature and National
Assembly a certain trust and confidence, in terms of that
legislature speaking for the Quebec community.

It was entireiy predictable, in my view. that peopie such as
Daniel Johnson and Claude Ryan and other tederalists wouid
obJect to the idea. flot of a referendum but of the possibility of an
end-run by a tederal government over the heads of the duly
eiected Government of Quebec on a matter on which there is
authority vested in the government and legisiature of Quebec.
They take the position that this is a fedieration. after ail. and if the
Quebec goverfiment wants to have a referendum so as to obtain
consent to a federal initiative, the Quebec goverfiment shouid be
in a position to do it. There shouid flot be an end-run by the
federai govemment.

Premier Jacques Parizeau, in speaking to the public after the
resuit, stated that the separatists simply iost because of the ethnic
vote in Montreal and some financial assistance of Quebec
corporations.

Senator MacEachen: Honourabie senators. 1 refer for a
moment to the comments of' Claude Ryan before the committee
on this point. They are as foliows:

1 should like to deal with the precedents that this bill sets. We
mlust flot lorget that Pariiament is flot the executive branch of the
Canadian government. The government exerts a crucial roie. and.
if one followed the media over the past generation. one would
conclude a preponderant. almost unilateral. role. However. we
are historicaliy and iegaliy a parliamentary democracy. of which
Parliament is the custodian. A custodian behaves often like a
servant, it is taue, but Parliament is neyer and shouid neyer be the
servant of the government. It is the other way: Govemment. great
leader of pariiamentary debate and initiative. is a humble servant
of the Parliament of Canada. Unfortunately Bill C-l10 ignores
that tact. That is what makes it inflexible, as some speakers
before me have mentioned.

It is quite conceivable that reasonabie proposais from the
federal govemment and the provinces wiii be rejected by the
current majority in the Quebec National Assembiy. What
happens then? The federai government is free at any time te,
consuit with Quebecers. It can stage a referendum at any
time. It does flot need Bill C-li10. Assuming that it wins its
case in a referendum. then you are faced with a hitherto
unseen political situation.
1 refer to this. and the foliowing sentence:
At the very leasi, the Quebec government wiii have to act
with considerable restraint. Another election battie wiii be
waged. It wiii be up to those who support this initiative to
delfend it come election time and to defeat the govemment.
That is how the demnocratic process works.
That is what 1 had in mind as 1 anaiyzed the ability of the
federai government to consult the people on a constitutionai
amendmnent to which the government may have been opposed. It
just stûrs up and opens the political arena to move the process
forward.
1 understand that is ail it is. Neyer at any point wouid the
federai government go to the people to overruie the iegisiature in
approving a constitutionai amendment. That is flot possible under
this bill.
I found Mr. Ryan's comments very interesting. I agreed with
most of them.
Hon. Stanley Haidasz: Honourabie senators, 1 appreciate this
opportunlty to make a tew remarks on Bill C-110, which 1
believe is an important piece of' legisiation in the whole strategy
of achieving Canadian unity.
As we ail know. the cabinet met yesterday. and, according to
the press, they said that they have agreed upon a strategy of
Canadian unity. I have confidence in the Prime Minister and his
new team to achieve that goal to which we al] aspire.
This legislation cornes just a a few months ater that awful
referendum of' October 30. in which the federaiists oniy won hy
aîpproximately 1 per cent of' the vote. What appals mie is that

1 Senatoi M un aN 1

Nonetheiess. 1 still have some caveats with regard to
Bill C- 10 which 1 wish to express to discharge my duty to the
public record. 1 wili be supporting the bill. as 1 said, because 1
have confidence in the Prime Minister, who has been involved in
many federai-provincial conferences and who led the one which
helped formulate the new Constitution which we now have.

Honourable senators. 1 make this point for the record: The
preamble of every bill in Parliament asserts that the Crown acts
on the advice and consent, flot of the Government of Canada but
of the Senate and the House of Commons of' Canada - the
Parliament oh Canada. The govemment has advised Parliament in
this bill that it conceives an overniding political value in enacting
a statute that does some highly irregular things.
Does Parliament consent to Bill C-I h10? With reservations,
perhaps Parliament consents. Accordingiy. does Parliament
advise the Crown to act? If so, in this case. 1 maintain. with
reservations, some of which have been expressed by previous
speakers in this place.
What of the reservation that this process and this bill sets
precedents? First, there is the precedent that it treats Parliament
as a servant of the government. which is wrong. Notwithstanding
the portent and consequences of this bill, upon which I wili touch
momentarily. the bill proposes to set aside the confines of the
present constitutional pro forma approaches to change, at least
insotar as the executive is concerned. That is more than a
consequential inatter. it is of prime cunstitutionai sigîîificancc.
Were we to stand strictly on principle, it ought to be referred te, a
Committee of the Whole. as was donc in our debate on the
Meech Lake Accord.
Honourabie senators. 1 believe it is important to say f'or the
record that if consent had been sought not to convene a
Committee of the Whole, 1 would flot have granted leave; rather.
1 wouhd agree to convene such a Committee of the Whoie and
recommend it. as t hope would every honourable senator iii this
place. Unfortunateiy. leave was not sought to proceed as we now
are proceeding.

February 2, 1996

SENATE DEBATES

The formula proposed by Bill C- 110 will set a precedent of its
own. We know that precedents are dangerous things. Apparently
the political argument on the bill - and I do not say necessarily
a bad or baseless argument - held by a number of important
minds is that Quebec has, or should have, a right to veto by
convention. In several tests, the courts have not recognized a
conventional right as argued thus far. Enactment of this bill can
have one effect, which is to change that finding at court, but it
can also ossify an artificial basis of that veto. Where argument
for a better basis may come to light without detailed study, it
cannot be concluded that the enactment of this bill will not
prejudice the result even of the constitutional conference to
which we are looking forward in 1997.
Honourable senators, I am not to be taken this morning as
saying that good arguments for a veto by convention for Quebec
might not succeed in future. I can think of at least one related to
the old principle of duality of founding partners of
Confederation; namely, that Quebec happens to be the only
province whose government is elected in general by a
francophone majority. In other words, the one place in Canada
where the preponderant francophone opinion or interest lies is
Quebec, notwithstanding significant francophone communities in
the other provinces of our country. By contrast, when looking to
anglophone interests, there are, of course, several provinces to
consider.
Language and cultural rights and fundamental freedoms,
including religious and confessional education rights and
freedoms of the francophone population of Canada, are on equal
footing, whether by Charter or by natural law, with those rights
and freedoms of the anglophone population of this country.
Indeed, there well may be other rights and freedoms cognate or
rationally related to these few I have mentioned which also are to
be paired with rights enjoyed by anglophones and our aboriginal
peoples, or even matched three ways with a plethora of cultural
ingredients whose members constitute a third of the Canadian
population. I refer to the non-francophone, non-anglophone,
non-aboriginal sector of Canadian society to which I belong. It is
reasonable, therefore, to balance effective or de facto veto
powers held by some combination of mainly anglophone
provinces with a veto power held in Quebec.
Thus far, my simple argument for acknowledging some basis
in convention for an implicate right to veto in matters germane or
highly important to Quebec obviously points to a different
formula than is enunciated in Bill C-110, but that is not the point
of my observation. My point is that if there is a good argument, a
jurisprudent argument and a constitutionally sound argument to
be found that Quebec should be accorded a veto power to match
certain combinations of other provincial powers to withhold
consent, it is not likely to be that formulated in Bill C-1 10 except
by a phenomenal stroke of luck.
We should be asking ourselves today before we vote: What
may be the effect on convention, case law and precedent that will
be introduced for some indeterminate length of time with the
statute. Bill C- 110? That is the important question we should be
considering at this moment as a body of sober second thought.

2619

Honourable senators, my points thus far with respect to
precedent are, first, that a statute takes the role of an act of
govemment, using an act of Parliament as servant, and that is a
step which is irregular in custom. I maintain that always the
government is a servant of the Parliament of Canada, the
representative of the people of Canada. Add to this neglect to
assess its significance in sufficient detail in Committee of the
Whole, and one has an abrogation of custom that appears
unparliamentary in its haste. We are forgetting that we are a
parliamentary democracy.
Finally, to enact as statute a measure that is bound to set
precedent is to alter the very equation we wish to solve, rather
like the famed Heisenberg Uncertainty principle. We seem to be
saying that Quebec is a problem of quantum mechanics, say
tunnelling, best grasped with gambits, guesses or gambles. At
any rate, it is uncharacteristic of sober second thought.
Honourable senators, as to details, I will be brief. Mr. Claude
Ryan, who appeared before our special committee endorsing this
bill, could not say it would go far to encourage earnest
participation of the Quebec government in negotiating
constitutional change. Of course he could not, and that is no
blame on him. However, so extreme a measure ought to be
avoided where its assurances are slim.
Mr. Ryan could not disagree that participants in the process in
Quebec may even find the bill counterproductive. However, it is
a matter for consideration that this bill is only temporary, and
only a first step in our efforts to attain Canadian unity.
There are other obvious weaknesses in the bill, honourable
senators, but I will not take your time to describe them. You have
heard of them from previous speakers. I will only say that this
bill is apparently deliberately vague in the extreme about what
constitutes the consent, or withholding of consent, of a province.
It could, I suppose, be interpreted as including a last-minute
telephone call from a premier's office, or perhaps from a
lieutenant govemor. However, one shudders at the concept. Of
course, it is amenable to the interpretation that it would take a
resolution by the goverinment of the province, but that is little
better.
a

(m5m)

Besides the obvious resolution of a province's Parliament or
legislative assembly - and Mr. Ryan, among others, felt it
important to limit the objects to that - it does not exclude
recourse to referendum, either by the provincial authorities or
even, conceivably, by the federal government, to find either
consent or confidence in a purported veto by the people of the
province.
Should a referendum be contemplated, as the objects allow, I
am astounded to find no other language to guide principle of
sufficient majority. No guidance is given to us in this bill, in the
event of a referendum under the terms of this bill, as to what
result would be required - for example, a two-thirds majority, or
a 50 per cent plus one, or something in between. What is it that
the government wants, as far as a referendum being the final
voice of the people to which the government has to listen?

is nothing in the bill to discriminate a weak popular
substantial referendum majority which, of course.
no small measure on the enumeration and
practices. as was seen in the recent Quebec

Should this bill not carry in this bouse. should Parliament not
prorogue imminently, then I would recommend the bill be
reintroduced and amended, or at least subjected to a proper
discussion, and probable amendment, in Committee of the
Whole.

The argument that this is just a bill. that it is dispensable as a
statute and, in fact, binds only the ministers of the Crown, is not
a good one, but Bill C-I 10 will be law, I believe, by two o'clock
this aftemoon. It will become a statute. The courts will know that
rather than using the cabinet resolution signals it could have
used, the govemment has chosen, with purpose, to enact these
principles, using Parliament to do so. These principles, however
they are applied, so long as they meet the vague test of this
statute, will establish practices and make any contest or appeal of
the referendum results more difficult. In the wrong hands. this
bill could become an instrument for undermining democratic
representation, one of the bases of political freedom and
responsibility.

Honourable senators. it is already twelve noon. Our clock at
2 p.m. will show whether Parliament reigns today.

Indeed, there
vote from a
depends in
surveillance
referendum.

I do not say that this bill is in the wrong hands, but again, the
bill has no sunset clause. Who is to say that it will not be found
to be the least onerous action to take politically just to let it
stand, to do little or nothing at the time of negotiations in 1997?
That is no magical year, honourable senators. Some of us will
still be here to see it. How will we feel as we vote at two o'clock
this afternoon?
The concept of Bill C- 110 is something like an end-run. as we
have just heard, around the Constitution. Not touching the
Constitution with a 15-foot pole is one thing; running circles
around it is another. I think it is the running circles that will draw
the foundation of law in Canada, the extant Constitution itself.
into doubt, into ill-regard, like some old codger the children of
Confederation need not heed.
If perhaps there are terms in the Constitution of 1982 that were
ill-conceived or inconvenient to change today, it is well that the
government would take a leading role in promoting change, but
with due caution and due regard for what does work - what has
worked for, well, one-eighth of a millenium at least.
Nevertheless, honourable senators, I applaud the federal
government's intention to limit its freedom in propounding
change. The government is showing its desire to let Quebec and
other provinces know that it will not contemplate introducing
into Parliament, of all high places and bars in the land, any
motions or resolutions that it has reason to believe would not
have approval in populous provinces or regions.
For the record, however, this may be a most ill-advised
instrument with which to make that laudable announcement. I
believe the people of Canada are accustomed to taking on faith
the fact that what is done in Parliament is intended to be in their
best interests. and as a senator, I worry that this precedent may
only serve to undermine a presumption to which I think all
persons are by right entitled.

| Senatoi Haida s
1

j

Hon. Noël A. Kinsella: Honourable senators -

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, I wish to inform
the Senate that if Honourable Senator Kinsella speaks now, his
speech will have the effect of closing the debate on this motion.
Senator Kinsella: Honourable senators. we have engaged in a
very fruitful debate on the report of the Special Committee on
Bill C- 110 which, as Senator MacEachen pointed out, was a very
focused study on Bill C-110.
Honourable senators, the record will show, I think, that we
have met our responsibility of examining a bill that was passed
by the House of Commons, albeit under the press of closure in
the other place. Although we received this bill prior to the
Christmas break, we used that period of time to do our individual
studies of it. and to prepare for the careful, focused hearings that
we did conduct.
The proposition we have heard from colleagues opposite is
that there are some problems with this bill. I am not sure whether
those problems, as they have seen them and as they have
articulated them in the debate here, will lead them to the
conclusion that they will therefore vote in support of the
committee's recommendation that there be three amendments
which would eminently improve this bill.
As I have listened to the debate, all senators seem to agree that
this bill is a tirst step. We seem to have a divergence of views as
to whether or not it is a hollow step. Most on this side are of the
opinion that there is a bit of a façade abroad with reference to the
bill. The façade or myth is that many in the public are expecting
that this bill somehow will solve the constitutional amendment
problem - and they underscore the term "problem" - that we
have in Canada. It is a problem that goes to the heart of the
nation.
*((1200)

In my judgment, these days we are experiencing a rupture in
the fabric of Canadian life. The community of brothers and
sisters in the province of Quebec are experiencing daily a serious
fracture in their community life. Because Quebec society is
living with this rupture, Canada is living with this rupture. It is a
fracture that goes to the very foundation of our country. It is a
fracture that cannot be rectified with Polyfilla. We have to
re-engineer the very foundation of this great Contederation, a
Confederation in which the practice of freedom has enjoyed
immense success for over 127 years.

February 2, 1996

SENATE DEBATES

The Canadian Confederation, in my view, has proven itself in
so many ways. Notwithstanding that, the reality we live with
today is that there is a fracture in our country. I am not satistied,
nor do I think are colleagues who support the govemment, that
this particular measure will be much more than a band-aid over a
major wound. We must do much more. We must assume the
leadership. We must articulate the vision of Canada 2000. We
must underscore the need for national conciliation. We must be
imaginative and creative in order to bring our country into the
21st century. We must provide this country with a renewed
foundation on which it will stand for another 127 years!
Honourable senators, it is important - and I think we have
done this here - to demythologize this bill, particularly that
somehow we have come up with a constitutional veto for the
people of Quebec. a demand they assumed the Prime Minister of
Canada was committed to as he made his important undertaking
in Verdun on October 27, 1995. If the government proceeds with
its great communication plan to camouflage the reality that we
do not have a constitutional amendment that responds to the real
needs as articulated by the people of Quebec and their leadership,
the people will see through the veil.

2621

within their spheres of jurisdiction. They have the legitimate
right and responsibility to interpret the public interest of their
provinces and their peoples. On the other hand, within its sphere
of jurisdiction, the federal government has the duty and
responsibility to ascertain and articulate what would constitute
the pan-Canadian public interest. Bill C- 110 commits an affront
to the fundamental principles of Confederation. We are taking the
federal Parliament into the realm of what is legitimately and
appropriately the jurisdiction of provincial legislatures.
Honourable senators, we heard from one colleague opposite
that perhaps it would have been better to kill the bill now rather
than allow a sunset clause. There is agreement amongst many of
us on this side that that would be a better course of action.
However, our approach and commitment at the beginning of the
study of Bill C-110 was that we would be as constructive and
helpful as we could. We felt that the three amendments we
brought forward in that spirit of attempting to be constructive
would find a good degree of support from members opposite, for
these amendments do not detract from the fundamental principle
and objective which the Prime Minister set out in Verdun.
* (121M)

We, on this side, have stated that we support the principle; we
support the step in the direction of trying to come to grips with
the notion of a veto for Quebec. However, this measure, as
Senator MacEachen accurately described for us, is simply a
restriction on the executive and on the Government of Canada. It
does not even place a limitation on the actions of backbenchers
or of members of the Houses of Parliament.
Honourable senators, we are prepared to accept that this is a
first step. We are anxious to know what the other steps will be
because this is not a significant beginning.
By way of a notice of motion, we have before us a proposal
that this chamber should strike a committee to identify some of
the constitutional amending options the Govemment of Canada
and other governments might wish to look at as they prepare for
their mandated conference of 1997. I hope that in the fullness of
time this chamber will be able to act on that recommendation by
our colleague Senator Beaudoin.
One of my concerns centres around a concern that Claude
Ryan and Daniel Johnson raised about how provincial consent
will be determined should Bill C- 110 receive Royal Assent.
Thus, it is the subject of a specific amendment in the report of
our committee. That question and this amendment also speak to a
divergence in vision that we on this side and our colleagues on
that side have about the nature of Confederation itself. If the
vision of Sir John A. Macdonald and the Fathers of
Confederation was that Canada is the coming together of real
entities - the four initial partners in Confederation - then the
proposition that the central government should have the power
and the tools to interpret the public interest of the parts, as
distinct or separate or in place of the public interest being
determined by the parts, is a fundamental difference in vision.
I believe in Confederation. My values. my starting point and
my criteria are that the provincial parts of Canada are sovereign

Therefore, I urge all honourable senators to give full
consideration to supporting the adoption of this report.
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, it was agreed by
motion yesterday that we would complete discussion at 1:30 p.m.
with a vote at two o'clock. The discussions on this particular
motion are now complete. The bells will ring at 1:30 p.m. and the
deferred vote will be held at two o'clock.
We will now proceed with other items on the Order Paper.
PEARSON AIRPORT AGREEMENTS
THIRD REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITrEEDEBATE CONCLUDED

On the Order:
Resuming the debate on the consideration of the third
report of the Special Committee of the Senate on the
Pearson Airport Agreements Berntson)

(Honourable Senator

Hon. John Lynch-Staunton (Leader of the Opposition):
Honourable senators, I had not intended to speak to this report
until after I heard Senator Kirby yesterday. Even then, I will only
briefly make reference to some of his comments in view of the
time and the day. When we return, I certainly intend to put down
an inquiry and continue the discussion, particularly with
reference to the minority opinion and Senator Kirby's reflections
on it, as they were made yesterday.
First, as one who was not exactly passive in the debate on the
motion that set up the committee, I wish to thank all the
members, the chairman, members on both sides, and the staff at

ail levels for having, given se much te make this committee, a
very unusual committee, the succcss it was. In particular. 1 wish
te tbank themi for having. in many cases. ahtered summer plans te
bring their energies and efforts te the successful completion of
the cemmittee's work. Many had [o, alter plans. They did se
gracefully. I thank them in particular, and ail those associated
with the committee&s work. for the excellent contributions they
made te, it.
I have nothing te add te what Senator MacDonald said
yesterday. However. as 1 said earlier, 1 have a lot te say about
what Senater Kirby said. First. 1 want te remind honourable
senaters about the purpose of' the committee. of which some
seem te have lest sight. Our concern here has net been witb the
cancellation of the contracts themselves. We believe it was an
unwise decision, but we aise accept the fact that the Govemnment
of Canada has a right. threugh the parliamentary process. te
cancel the agreements.
Hon. John G. Bryden: That is net what the terins of reference
say. senater.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: 1 amn trying te, explain the purpose
of the inquiry.
Senator Bryden: Read the terms of reterence. Events Ieading
up te and the negetiatien and the cancellation of the centract.
That is what it says.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: Our argumentation on the Pearson
controversy bas neyer been with the gevernment's right te cancel
the contracts. although we do question the wisdom of' se doing.
Tbe purpose of tbe cemmittee was sparked by certain statements
made by a number et ministers of the Crown. including the
Prime Minister, tbe Minister cf' Justice and, in particular. the
fermer minister of Transport.
The former minister of Transport, in bis appearance as a
witness before the Legal and Constitutional Affairs Committee te
discuss Bill C-22. set the tone of bis approacb by asking me, the
first questioner, whom 1 was representing. This implied. quite
unsubtly. that my colleagues and I were tbere objecting te
Bill C-22. net on the question et the rule of law or the other
arguments we bad raised. but te, represent the interests of certain
individuals and cempanies who had a vested interest in the
centracts themselves.
That statement set off' a litany of what I can only cal] vitniolic
statements which. in summary, accuse just about everyone
invelved with the Pearson agreements and those involved with
the protestations ever Bill C-22 with having one motivation.
namely. te protect the interests of Conservative supporters.
I will not read ail the condemnation te which we and others
have been subjected. Let me just remind honeurable senaters ef
seme of the more celourtul enes. First. tbat the Pearson
agreements were the biggest rip-off in Canadian history.

Senator Bryden: That bas been preven accurate.

1Senaioi

Lx nch-Siatunton

1

Senator Lynch-Staunton: Second. that they were -a cesspool
of intrigue." and senators in this chamber on this side were
involved. in condemning Bill C-22, "te fine our friends'
pockets."
These were net just casual statements made in the heat of'
debate; tbese were calculated cendemnations of parties invelved
in a straight-up agreement. and of senators concerned over a
reprebensible bill drafted te obscure tbe truc motivation of those
who cared about the mile of law.
In particular, two provocative statements were made - one by
the fermer minister of Transport when he said, in commenting
about our concerrus. tbat he would "let the Conservative majerity
in tbe Senate continue te try te take care of their friends.The
other statement. by tbe Minister of Justice. is a little more subtle
but the implication was tbe same when. in commenting on the
cbanges we wanted te make te the bill, he said that he regretted
the changes. He went on te say tbat be observed that tbe majority
ef' the cemmittee tbat made tbose recommendations are
Progressive Conservative senators and that he tbougbt that had a
lot te do witb it.
The implication is clear. Over and over again. government
members bave deliberately embarked on a campaign et
condemnation of colleagues on this side. and have characterized
tbe agreements as being in the werst interests of Canadian
taxpayers.
Tbis alone justified an independent inquiry. If Canadian
taxpayers were se badly ripped off, if faveurite friends et
previeus gevernments were se well taken care ef. surely an
inquiry was essential in order te see. first. the validity of tbe
charges; and. second, if there was any. te take whatever
proceedings weve necessavy agairist whatever individuals wcic
found te be involved in criminai activîty.

Senator Bryden: We bave aiready beard tbis speech.
Senator Lyncb-Staunton: Tbird. an inquiry was necessary te
find eut if tbere are members of Parliament wbo happen te sit in
this cbamber whe are carrying eut their responsibilities with the
sole purpose ef lining tbeir friends' pockets.
Tbe gevernment refused te set up an independent inquiry. It
was net with any entbusiasm - and I am queting imyself - that
we made a motion te set up a Senate inquiry. We knew tbat the
interpretation of the results would be obscured by the partisan
nature of tbe makeup of the committee, but better a Senate
inquiry tban none at ail.
As it turns eut, none of the major malicieus statements made
by any minister were ever proven by any witness who came
befere us. Tbere was ne cesspool. Tbere was ne rip-off'. There
was and is ne Iining of pockets.
Senator Bryden: 1 do net know wbat inquiry you attended.
Wbat about the $3.5 million" Stick te seme facts.

Fehruarv 2. 1996SNAEEAES23

SENATE DEBATES

The Hon. the Acting Speaker: Order. please. Senators will
have an opportunity to participate in the debate. Senator
Lynch-Staunton has the tloor.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: None of those who made those
statements have had the decency to retract thcm, even less to
apologize for them. That does flot surprise me in the least,
because these are the same people who showed no concern
whatsoever when the Department of Justice sent a letter to a
foreign country indicating that a former prime minister had
engaged in criminal activities -

2623

line, incorporated in the Nixon report. parroted in the Pearson
committee minority opinion and in Senator Kirby's remarks of
yesterday.
The evidence is aIl to the contrary. The agreements were flot
signed by Conservative or govemment supporters. The contrats
were in the public intcrcst.

Senator Bryden: Honourable senators, is the honourable
senator using the debate on the Pearson inquiry report to also
deal with the Airbus scandaI?

Here we are, over two years later, and nothing but the bare
minimum is being donc at Pearson airport. A lease with the
airport authority has yet to be signed. Both carriers and travellers
plead for improvements to Terminais 1 and 2 which everyone
knows have been long overdue. Had the contracts been
respected, hundreds of millions of dollars in private capital
would have been invested and thousands of jobs would have
been created in a region which is desperately in search of jobs.
Cancelling the contracts was donc for no other reason than
narrow, partisan purposes.
1 intend to elaborate on this and other aspects of the sad, flot to
say tragic, Pearson story on another occasion. Now 1 want to,
comment on the myth that the main contracts; were signed in late
October 1993. They were flot.

Senator Lynch-Staunton: Honourable senators, that is not a
point of ordern it is a point of information. 1 am commenting on
the Pearson report and giving some background to it. If some of
the things I say are touching a nerve, so be it.

AIl of the evidence indicates that both parties recognized that,
by the end of August 1993, negotiations had led to agreements
from which neither party cou Id unilaterally remove itself without
being exposed to major financial damages.

I will add one thing, whether or flot it is out of order: Given a
choice between casting my lot with Brian Mulroney or with those
who would deny innocent citizens the aile of law or a former
prime minister the presumption of innocence, 1 will pick Brian
Mulroney any time.

Senator Bryden: That is absolute nonsense. That is absolutely
flot taie. How can you stand up there and simply state what gocs
against the facts found in the evidence and the report?

0 (1220)

Senator Bryden: Your Honour, I risc on a point of order.
The Hon. the Acting Speaker: The honourable senator rises
on a point of order.

Somne Hon. Senators: Hear, hear!
Senator Lynch-Staunton: As for the report itself, 1 do flot
have the time and this is flot the day - particularly in view of
the vote to be held at 2 p.mn - to reply to Senator Kirby's
diatribe. It is hoped that we will have another occasion because
we canriot let his tirade go unanswered. Any unsuspecting reader
of Hansard may take it for fact when it is, in large part, a
harangue based on hearsay, selective documents, irrelevant facts
and out-of-context statements. It is a perfect sequel to the Nixon
report, the contents of which were long ago discredited. The
report's author and bis associates as witnesses in front of the
committee proved equal to the report and the unprecedented
legisiation which it fostered.
Senator Kirby's presentation should be attached to the Nixon
report as Volume 2, as both start from preconceived notions to
arrive at incoherent conclusions. Both take particular offence at
the fact that the Pearson contracts were concluded shortly before
the last federal election and that, somehow, this was a violation
by a goverfiment of established tradition, particularly by a
govemnment whose chances of being re-elected were universally
considered to be nil.
As a result, the cancellation of the contracts, dlaim Liberal
ministers and their supporters. will cost taxpayers hundrcds of
millions of dollars if Bill C-22 is flot passed. This will be said to
bc the fault of a Conservative government which dirccted a
sweethcart contract to ils supporters, which had to be canccllcd
hecause it was against the public interest. So goes the Liberal

Senator Lynch-Staunton: This is what Prime Mînister
Campbell was faced with. Had she refused to, allow the deal to be
closed in October, some 20 days before the election. without the
approval of the other parties, an immediate dlaimt for damages
would have ensued.
1 urge honourable senators, including and in particular Senator
Bryden, to read the testimony of the now Clerk of the Privy
Council and other government officiais involved in the
negotiations. including senior Treasury Board ofticials. They will
find in that testimony unanimous agreement that, as the
negotiations moved to a successful conclusion, beginning in the
early summer of 1993, potential liability based on the backing off
of one party or another was increasing accordingly.
It is aIl there in the testimony by those involved in the
negotiations on behalf of the Governaient of Canada. A deal
began to take shape.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: A deal began to take shape as early
as June 1993. The closing date of October was set sometime in
early July.
Senator Bryden: No contract until October.
Senator L[.ynch-Staunton: The date was set sometime in early
July.
Senator Bryden: There is evidence that there was no contract
until July.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: That confirms that both sides were
committed to a siiccesslul conclusion of negotiations which took
place at the end ol'AugIusi. Il look place at the end of August.

Honourable senators, I am very new here. but is there any rule
of this house that the statements of a senator must bear some
relevance to the facts about which he is reporting?

However in terms of the country's interests, this would have
been the wrong choice as taxpayers would have been exposed. as
has been confirmed in testimony from all sides, to damages
arising from a unilateral breach of contract. As Prime Minister,
Ms Campbell had no choice.

Senator Berntson: Obviously not. We listened to it all day
yesterday.
0

Senator Lynch-Staunton: If Senator Kirby is an example, the
honourable senator bas answered his own question. My
intervention has been an exception, which is perhaps why the
honourable senator rose.

The closing date of October had been agreed upon in early
July. By the end of August, the deal was successfully completed.
At the end of August, cabinet approval was given to a Treasury
Board submission, and an Order in Council was issued giving the
Minister of Transport authority to sign the contracts based on the
submission made to cabinet.

There we were, in the same position as someone who had
agreed to buy a bouse. The price was set and the actual closing
date was to take place a month or two months later, but there has
been an agreement between the two parties before the final,
formal closing. In this case, a firm commitment between the two
parties was made at the end of August. What happened in
October was a formality.

(123o)

Let me remind honourable senators that, during the campaign,
Mr. Chrétien spoke of reviewing the contracts and about the
public knowing all the facts. Immediately after the election,
Pearson Development Corporation agreed to postpone the
execution of the contracts to allow a review to take place. The
events that followed are well known. The so-called "review" by
Robert Nixon was nothing but a politically motivated
argumentation against private development. and a
recommendation that the contracts be annulled based on
innuendo, prejudice and preconceived notions.
To compound this, honourable senators, the government then
introduced Bill C-22, which would give the Minister of Transport
absolute discretion in the determination of the type of damages to
be awarded and the amount. Unfortunately, these decisions have
had repercussions way beyond our borders. for this would be the
first time that not only has a Canadian government repudiated a
contract without justification, but also has refused the repudiated
party the right to seek redress before a neutral party. Our
reputation abroad has suffered tremendously from this
unprecedented action.

At the end of August, honourable senators, the Government of
Canada and Pearson Development both knew that they were
committed to each other and that any breach of that commitment,
other than by mutual agreement, would have costly legal and
financial repercussions.

If a convention was broken, it is not because of what
Ms Campbell did in October of 1993: it is because of what the
Prime Minister authorized a few weeks later: the breaching of the
convention that one honours the obligations of his or her
predecessors and. in disagreement, respects the rule of law and
fairness in changing or abrogating them; something which was
not followed in the case of the Pearson Airport Agreements.

What Prime Minister Campbell agreed to was not the signing
of the contracts but their release from escrow where they had
been put, already signed, by the minister and Pearson
Development until certain obligations were met. Did Prime
Minister Campbell have a choice? I suppose she did. Yes,
politically, it no doubt would have been preferable had she
decided to postpone the closing date until after the election.
Politically, that might have been the best choice.

Some may question whether or not this is indeed a convention,
so let me quote to colleagues a statement made by the Prime
Minister himself when be was in India recently, signing trade
agreements at the time that either an election had been called. or
was about to be called. I do not have precise information, but
what I have learned since is that a vote is expected in India in
April. No exact date bas been announced, but the election
campaign is on, and was on at the time.

February 2, 1996

February 2, 1996

SENATE DEBATES

SENATE DEBATES

The Prime Minister, after signing trade agreements, was asked
by an Indian reporter if any Canadian trade deals would be
jeopardized or could be jeopardized if the government lost the
election. If the Indian govemment signs contracts in which the
government bas an involvement, could a successor abrogate the
contracts?
Senator Stollery: After the writ bas come out?
Senator Lynch-Staunton: I do not know their system, but the
election campaign was on. The situation is similar enough to the
one we were in for me to make mention of it.
The Prime Minister replied - without blushing, by the way,
because I also heard him on television - that a change in the
government would have no effect. He said that "govemments
make it a tradition to respect the words of previous
governments."
I can only assume that, in this case, the statement is not
divisible. What Mr. Chrétien said applied to agreements this
country makes outside Canada also applies to agreements made
by the Canadian government domestically.
Senator Olson: Why not tell the rest of the story? He said
before the election that he would cancel the contract.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: No. He said before the election that
he would review the contract. The word "cancellation" appears
nowhere. He said that he wanted the public to know all the facts.
That is a long way from giving Mr. Nixon a 30-day mandate,
with the first draft report coming out on November 18, halfway
through that mandate, with a conclusion, even before Nixon
heard from his so-called witnesses, for, by the way, many of the
witnesses who should have been there were not invited, and of
the others he had little recollection, and had no notes with which
to jog his memory. It is also interesting that Mr. Nixon bas made
no comment on the Pearson report, and with reason.
Honourable senators, let us hope that the government bas
learned from this tragic story, and that it will not be repeated by
it or its successors. In particular, if the Prime Minister's
statement is not divisible, he has no choice but to see that
Bill C-22, whether in its existing form or as a successor bill, will
not be brought here again to do dishonour to the Parliament of
Canada.
Some Hon. Senators: Hear, hear!
Senator Bryden: Honourable senators, I wonder why we are
doing this today. I was not here yesterday, but why was this issue
raised yesterday? The purpose of these past two days has been to
address serious issues relating to the future makeup of our
country. These issues may have implications not only for us but
for generations to come. I am bewildered as to why, at this time,
we are back to continuing to pick at the political cadaver of the
last days of the moribund Mulroney government.
Senator Lynch-Staunton: The item is on the Order Paper.

2625
2625

Senator Bryden: I had the opportunity to read the debate of
yesterday. The only reason I can think of as to why Senator
MacDonald, the chairman of the committee, would have taken an
hour to review and rehash what bas gone on and attack the
minority report is that he, for some reason, felt he needed a
rematch after what happened at the press conference on
December 13. The way I read what happened yesterday, he was
overmatched. I do not think Senator MacDonald did such a bad
job on December 13, not nearly as bad as some of his friends
opposite implied. Given what he had to work with, he did a very
good job.
This place, surely, bas had enough of the Pearson deal. I would
think that the Canadian public bas had enough of the Pearson
deal. They voted on this issue. It was a large part of what
happened in October of 1993. We have invested goodness knows
how many dollars in the inquiry that took place this summer. It
changed no one's mind in particular. What it did do is present
once again to the jury of the Canadian public what this deal was
all about. That jury turfed the Conservative Party, which entered
into that deal out of office, and virtually obliterated it. I found no
indication that anything that came out of that inquiry changed
their opinion.
Honourable senators, I want to draw the attention of this house
to something that happened which may be of interest. On
December 13 last, the committee report was tabled and a press
conference occurred with media interviews. On December 15, a
lead editorial appeared in The Globe and Mail, together with a
treatise on Bill C-22 by Professor Monahan. The lead editorial
basically reiterated the conclusions of the Conservative majority,
with Professor Monahan supporting the fact that he thinks
Bill C-22 is unconstitutional.
On December 21, I faxed a letter to the Editor-in-Chief of The
Globe and Mail replying to both. Predictably, the paper refused
to publish it. Being basically a fatalist, I put my letter in the file,
thinking that the time is past, the issue is done, we have beaten
this dead horse as much as we can beat it. Then, lo and behold, I
came back here to find that it bas been resurrected. Since I could
not get it on the public record through The Globe and Mail, I
should like to put it on the public record now.
This is a letter dated December 21, 1995, to William Thorsell,
Editor-in-Chief of The Globe and Mail. It reads:

Dear Editor:
I was disappointed, although not surprised, that your
editorial "A lapse of judgment on the Pearson Airport"
(Friday, December 15), presented such a one-sided view of
the evidence and conclusions of the Report of the Special
Senate Committee on the Pearson Airport Agreements, that
it might more properly have been authored by Conservative
Senate leader John Lynch-Staunton than an editor of what
purports to be Canada's national newspaper. Your editorial
omitted many important facts. which L hope you will allow
me to present to your readers, so that they may draw their
own conclusions about the "Pearson Airport affair."

Fact: The evidence showed that the Pearson contracts
gave the developers $200-$250 million more in profits than
prevailing rates of return required....

Senator Tkachuk: Who said that?

Fact: The rate of return to the developers was not 14%, as
stated by the majority report, but a pre-tax 23.6% -...

Senator Tkachuk: Don't just say it. Who said it?

Fact: The model used by the Government in assessing the
rate of return was a model provided by the developers
themselves - who were hardly impartial or disinterested in
the results of the assessment....
Fact: Over and above their 23.6% profits, the developers
would have earned millions of dollars in non-arms length
side agreements. These included construction contracts,
management contracts, engineering contracts, international
promotional contracts and consulting contracts. One of these
contracts, signed during the election campaign, was a no-cut
promise to pay $3.5 million over ten years to a company
headed by Don Matthews, with no obligation by Mr.
Matthews' company to provide any goods or services in
exchange for this money. None of these contracts was
mentioned anywhere in the majority report.
Fact: Time after time when lobbyists pitted themselves
against the recommendations of the public servants. the
Minister of Transport expressly directed the public servants
to accept the lobbyists' recommendations. The public
servants' dismay was evident in a 1991 memorandum
shown the Committee, which said: "Paper trail - Min[isteri
can overrule us...but audit trail on decisions." This evidence
was omitted from the majority report.
Fact: Mr. Fred Doucet, a long-time close personal friend
of Prime Minister Mulroney, won for his company
over $2 million for lobbying services for Mr. Matthews'
groups -...
Fact: Mr. Bill Neville, another lobbyist for Mr. Matthews'
group, not only received "full debriefings" on what
transpired in secret Cabinet committee meetings, but was
also brought in on Kim Campbell's transition team and
helped shuffle senior public servants involved in the
Pearson file.

Senator Bryden: It's in the file.

Senator Bryden: I can cite the transcript if you want. I am
reading the letter. I do not want to confuse the fact that I am
reading my letter. To continue:
None of this evidence was mentioned in the majority
report...
Fact: Mr. Shortliffe,
testified under oath that
arrange things with the
could get a piece of the

Mr. Mulroney's top civil servant,
Mr. Mulroney asked him to try and
Pearson project "so that everybody
action." ...

Excessive profits, sweetheart deals, busy lobbyists,
political pressure - this was how Canada's largest and most
profitable airport ended up in the hands of a private group of
developers in a 57-year lease. And who would pay? The
travelling public, in increased charges for virtually
everything at the airport.
We detailed all this evidence (and more) in the minority
report. Our report was not, as suggested in your editorial, an
interpretation of the evidence. Our report simply quoted the
evidence before the Committee. The evidence speaks
eloquently for itself. This was a bad deal. negotiated by a
flawed process, and pushed through during an election
campaign in a way that the academics who testified
described variously as "bizarre," "imprudent." and
"constitutionally inappropriate exercise of power."
It was evident from reading your editorial that you had
confined yourself only to the majority report. I invite you,
but more importantly. I invite your readers to read both
reports. I ask them as taxpayers, as members of the
travelling public. and as citizens, to decide whether the
Chrétien government had any choice but to cancel this deal.

Senator Bryden: It is in the evidence. You just did not do
your homework, senator. The letter goes on:

Having participated in the hearings, I cannot say it was a
worthwhile expenditure of time or taxpayers' money - not
in these times, when government services have to be
drastically reduced, and every tax dollar has many needy
hands reaching for it already. The evidence simply
confirmed the judgment already made by the Canadian
electorate in October, 1993. The Liberals in the Senate did
not ask for the inquiry; but the Conservative majority voted
for it. And we did our best to get at the truth.

Fact: Prime Minister Mulroney was very heavily involved
in this file. There was repeated evidence that pressure was
being exerted from the very top to conclude the deal before
Prime Minister Mulroney left office.

It was an interesting coincidence that on the same day
that your one-sided editorial appeared. on the op-ed page
was a treatise by Professor Patrick J. Monahan entitled,
"Why the Pearson legislation may be unconstitutional.' Its

This while he was still invoicing Paxport.
Senator Tkachuk: Where is that in the evidence? Read it out
of the evidence.

{Senator Bryden ]

February 2, 1996

February2. 1996

SENATE DEBATES

SENATE DEBATES

entire thesis is based on the assumption that the Pearson
agreements resulted in a "fairly bargained contract", and
that the cancellation of this contract by Bill C-22, which
restricts the proponents' legal claims to the recovery of
actual costs incurred, but denies any claims for lost future
profits and consultants' and lobbyists' fees, would somehow
be contrary to the rule of law referred to in the preamble to
the Constitution. Two points need to be made in regard to
this thesis.
First, the vast preponderance of evidence presented at the
inquiry into the Pearson deal established that this was not a
fairly bargained contract. It was enormously generous to the
developers, failed to protect the interests of the travelling
public and the Canadian taxpayers, and its terms were
virtually dictated by the proponents directly, or indirectly
through their lobbyists, with the acquiescence if not the
active promotion of the Ministers and Prime Ministers. This
was not only in violation of the Conservative Govemment's
own policy on airport devolution, but was also in total
disregard for the Govemment's three principles governing
major contracts, that require competition, equal treatment,
and openness and transparency of process.
Second, this was not a contract entered into by a
Govemment and then cancelled by the same Govemment. It
was a contract driven to completion and directed to be
signed by the Prime Minister in the dying days of the
Conservative Government, and it was cancelled by a
succeeding government, whose mandate was, inter alia, to
do exactly that. If one were to follow Professor Monahan's
thesis to its logical conclusion, any succeeding government
must either perform such a contract, no matter how
exorbitant the costs, or if it cancels the contract, incur the
risks of huge damages for lost future profits and lobbying
fees that may be awarded by the courts at the expense of
Canadian taxpayers. Surely this is taking a reference to the
rule of law in the preamble to the Constitution to ridiculous
extremes.

2627

2627

Under the guise of the reference to the concept of the rule
of law in the preamble of the Constitution, Mr. Monahan is
setting the stage for gross abuses of power by outgoing
governments. If accepted, his argument would allow perhaps even encourage - goverments that have lost the
trust of the electorate, to engage in a patronage spree
beyond anything we have seen before. Governments would
have no constraint on their power to conclude rich deals
with their friends and supporters. Any succeeding
government would then be bound - by Mr. Monahan's
thesis - to honour such contracts. If they were to elect to
cancel the contracts, they would still be liable to pay the
friends and supporters damages for all the profits they
anticipated receiving.
A court cannot rewrite a bad contract, even one made by
a government on its way out of power. And according to Mr.
Monahan, Parliament is powerless to undo such a contract,
unless the parties can claim damages for all the profits and
fees as if the contract had been completely performed.
Surely this is absurd; surely this is not how our
parliamentary and judicial systems protect our interests as
citizens. And what value does our vote then have? The
electorate voted to undo the deal; yet Mr. Monahan's thesis
would refuse the electorate that right. Or would it?
Bill C-22 would cancel the Pearson contracts, and
provide a mechanism for the Govemment to reimburse the
developers for their reasonable costs and legal fees, plus
interest. If one reviews the testimony before the Senate
Legal and Constitutional Affairs Committee, it is this
reimbursement mechanism that Mr. Monahan has declared
falls afoul of the rule of law.
The Hon. the Acting Speaker: I regret that I have to inform
the honourable senator that his speaking time has expired, but he
could, of course, continue with the unanimous consent of the
house.
Is it agreed?

It should also be pointed out that Professor Monahan's
view is not the only one expressed by constitutional experts
to the Legal and Constitutional Affairs Committee of the
Senate.
0(1250)

In addition to the Justice Minister and his constitutional
experts, Professor Wayne MacKay of Dalhousie Law
School, and others, find Bill C-22 to be in total compliance
with the Constitution and well within the powers of the
Parliament of Canada. Indeed, if one reviews the testimony
of the various 'constitutional experts' before the Committee,
one is reminded of what is sometimes said of the expert
opinions of economists, that they have an opinion not
because they know. but because they are asked.

Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Senator Bryden: Honourable senators, allow me to continue
from where I was before I was so graciously interrupted. My
letter continues:
It will be a rather bizarre result of the Conservatives'
position on this bill, if the Government is forced by the
Conservatives to return with a new bill, one which would
cancel the agreements and provide no compensation at ail.
All the witnesses who appeared before the Senate Legal and
Constitutional Affairs Committee, including Mr. Monahan,
are on record as saying that this would be perfectly
constitutional and well within the power of the Parliament
of Canada.

Remember. honourable senators. that tbis was written on
December 21. Continuing with my letter:
1 believe that Bill C-22 is constitutionally sound, and
sensible public policy in view of the circumstances of this
particular - highly unusual - deal. This bill has been
debated twice in the House of Commons. studied in the
House of Commons Transport Committee, debated
extensively in the Senate, and has now sat in the Senate
Legal and Constitutional Affairs Committee for 18 months.
Twice the Govemment attempted to break the gridlock on
the bill, by proposing amendments that would address the
concerns raised by the Conservatives' experts; however.
each time one concern was addressed. a new one suddenly
emerged.
It is time to pass the bill, so that il can be a law to be
considered along with other laws by the courts during the
legal action on the contrat which is currently before the
courts. That is the proper action for the Conservative
ma)jonty in the Senate to take at this time, unless the real
purpose of continuing to hold up passage of the bill is. to
use Senator Finlay MacDonald's words, to have it -die on
the order paper." In trying to understand the motive for such
stonewalling of this bill. during this season of the year
Remember, 1 wrote this on December 21

-

-I turn 10 the words of Mr. Scrooge when confronted by
the ghost of his former partner Marley, in Dickens' A
Christmas Carol: -There's more of gravy than of grave
about you. whatevcr you are!-~ An objective observer might
conclude in this case that there is much more ot gravy than
of grave constitutional conccrns motivating the
Conservative majority in the Senate on Bill C-22.

Hon. H.A. Oison: Honourable senators. 1 have a word or two
to say in this debate because of the interventions and heckhing of
the two members from Saskatchewan, who sem to think that the
govemment bas done something wrong by dealing with a matter
that was tinally authorized just belore the election. long after the
writ was issued. They should go back and read somne of the
debates of one of their compatriots, the Right Honourable John
Diefenbakcr, and see what he had to say about governments
making long-term commitments of any kind after the writ is
issued.
While the govemment of the day did have a majority - and
could legally and constitutionally sign these agreements morally. and in the name of decency, they should have waited at
least until they saw whether or not the people would endorse
them. My understanding is that the Prime Minister of the day
signed the deal nine days before the election day. Why could the
government not have waited 10 sec whether or not it had the
moral authority of the electorate in Canada'?

Senator Tkachuk: You should appoint a judgc.

1Selatoi- Bivdenl

1

Senator Oison: No. You should not appoint a judge to
determine what payments will be made out of the public treasury.
That is donc someti mes but il is not a good idca gcneraily.
Parliament has control of the purse strings in this country, and so
it should. That is what the bill calîs f'or. It calls for the
government to pay some of those expenses.
I rccommend that Senators Berntson and Tkachuk read some
of Mr. Diefenhaker's speeches about the type of' situation in
which the previous Conservative governmcnt found itself. AIl
they needed to do was to refrain from signing the agreements
until election day, because thc present Prime Minister then the
Leader of' the Opposition, had already advised the govcrnment.
the public and the participants to the deal that if the Liberals
were elected. that deal. that arrangement. would be cancelled. so
it was no surprise to anyone.
The govemment of the day did not havc the moral authority to
sign that dca!, and it should not have signed it.
Senator Lynch-Staunton's remarks are what have spurred me
to make these few comments. He says that someone cisc is at
fault. There is no one cisc at fault except the government and the
Prime Minister of the day. who signed the deal nine or ten days
in advance of the election. whcn thcy really did not have the
moral authonity to do so.

The Hon. the Acting Speaker: If no other senator wishcs to
spcak, this order is considercd debated.

INTERNAI, ECONOMY, BUDGETS AND
ADMIINISTRATION
FORTY-THIRD REPORT 0F COMMITTEE ADOPTED

The Senate proceeded to consideration of the forty-third report
of the Standing Committce on Internai Economy, Budgets and
Administration. presented in the Senate on February I. 1996.

Hon. Colin Kenny moved the adoption of the report.
He said: Honourable senators, the report before you requests
approval of a supplementary estimate for the prescrit fiscal year
1995-96 totalling $3.265.000. The supplementary estimate is
requested to fund unanticipated expenses for the current year. It
will generate savings in future years or will result in increases in
productivity.
Thc items for which the supplementary funds arc requîred are
as follows: first. the Early Departure Program which rcsulted in
the elimination of 16 positions from the Senate; second, an
upgrade to the Senatc's very much outdated computer
communications nctwork; third. the requirements of' the special
joint and standing committees whose expenditures were not
foreseen at the time that the Senate set its budget for the fiscal
year: tburth, the implcmentation of mn-bouse printing which wihl
result in annual savings of' $600.000 in printing costs.

Februarv 2, 1996SEAEDBTS29

SENATE DEBATES

1 shouid note that in 1994-95 your committee asked for and
received a supplementary estimate of $1,873,000 for the
purchase of computers and a new sound system. However, much
of this money lapsed as there was insufficient time to complete
these projeets. This year, we do have the necessary time and we
are confident that ail our projeets wiIl be completed before the
end of the fiscal year.
I should like to provide honourable senators with a littie more
detail on why your committee is requesting ibese funds. 1 will
begin with the Early Departure Program. During 1995-96, the
departure payments made to employees whose positions were
eliminated amounted to $875,000. This was partially offset by
salary savings of $418.000, leaving $457,000 currently
unfunded. The funding of departure payments for govemnment
departments is usually approved by Treasury Board provided that
the payback period is reasonable. that is, no more than two or
three years.
While it is obvious to senators that the Senate is not a
government department, your committee has nevertheless
applied standards which are as high or higher than those applied
by Treasury Board. The Senate's payback period is 16 months,
which is significantly better than the Treasury Board giuidelines.
1 should like now to talk about the upgrade to the Senate's
computer communication network. As many senators know, our
present system is outdated. Lt has limited capacity and is subject
to frequent breakdowns. It is quite apparent that there is a need to
communicate electronically with the House of Commons and the
Library of Parliamnent.
Just last year, the other place upgraded its computer
communication network and funded it through supplementary
estimates worth $3.800,000. In order for us to be tecbnically
compatible, the Senate must also upgrade, wbich will cost a total
of $1.408 million.
1 will now discuss our proposaI to upgrade the Senate's sound
system. Funds have been set aside to establish an adequate
system for sound distribution inside and outside the Senate
chamber for requirements of simultaneous interpretation. The
Internai Economy Committee has been putting off this problem
for many years. Our sound system is so inadequate that staff has
been informed that no amount of repair wiIi provide us with the
reliability we require. If we do not replace it now, we will
continue to experience forced adjoumnments because the system
is not functioning. This disrupts our sittings and delays the
passage of legisiation and other work of the Senate. As well, an
improved, updated system will resuit in much better quality in
the translation and interpretation of our proceedings.
It bas been an established practice to fund special and joint
committees from supplementary estimates as these costs cannot
be anticipated during the budget process. The total amount we
are requesting this year is $515.000 which breaks out as follows:
Pearson alrport committee, $298.000; joint scrutiny of
regulations committee. $151.381; the special joint committee on
code of conduct, $31,.942-. the special committee on euthanasia.

2629

$26.300; the officiai languages joint committee, $4.300; the
Library of Parliament joint committee. $3.000.
Finally. 1 would like to discuss in-house printing. A few
months ago, the internaI economy committee. under my
predecessor the Honourable Senator Hastings, asked Senator
Cohen to review the findings of a staff committee on officiaI
Senate documents. Her recommendation was that the Senate
establish an mn-bouse printing capability. This proposai was
accepted by our committee at its meeting last month. While
requiring a capital investment of $885,000, this proposai will
resuit in projected cost savings of $600.000 each year or $50.000
per montb.
This figure bas been confirmed by an outside. independent
auditor's projection. Progestics Consultants of Ottawa, a firmn
specializing in technical audits. Our payback period for this
capital investment wili be less than 18 months. Lt is in our
interests to proceed with tbis project as soon as possible.
The printing of officiai documents is currently being done by
the government printing office formerly known as the Queen's
Printer. That office is now disbanded. The option of baving
Senate documents printed hy private companies was considered
but rejected on the grounds that it wouid be less expensive to do
the printing mn-bouse. The only printing planned to be done
outside the Senate is for specialized materials, such as embossed
printing, invitations for the opening of Parliament and the
binding of Senate joumnais and the Debates of the Senate.
In conclusion, I would like te, thank a number of senators for
their special assistance with this supplementary estimate. I wish
to thank Senator Nolin for moving the motion to adopt these
estimates in committee;, Senator Cohen for ber work in reviewing
the findings and the recommendations of the staff committee on
officiai Senate documents; Senators Nolin, Carstairs, Mimne and
Comeau for their preliminary work respecting the proposais for
the Senate's new computer program; and to tbe leadership of
both sides of the bouse for their cooperation which made tbis
process more simple. I also want to tbank tbe Senate staff for al]
their work, particulariy on such sbort notice.
Honourahie senators. I ask your support for tbis report. It is a
report wbich requests funds for the Early Departure Program to
reduce person-years witb a pay-back period of 16 montbs. It
requests funds to upgrade our computer system so the Senate is
not Ieft bebind in this area of technology. and so that we will be
able to electronicaily communicate witb other branches on
Parliament Hill. Lt includes a proposai to improve the chamber
sound system wbicb is intolerabie. Lt includes a proposai for
in-house printing wbicb will generate savings of $50.000 a
montb.
As a resuit of these supplementary estimates, the total annual
future savings generated from both the mn-bouse printing program
and the Eariy Departure Program wiii be $1.262 million. These
are important steps forward in the administration of the Senate
and, I believe, wortby of your approvai.
Motion agreed to and report adopted.

FORTY-FOURTH REPORT OF COMMITTEE ADOPTED

The Senate proceeded to consideration of the forty-fourth
report of the Standing Committee on Internal Economy. Budgets
and Administration, presented in the Senate on February 1, 1996.
Hon. Colin Kenny moved the adoption of the report.
He said: Honourable senators, before getting into the details of
this report, I should like to thank senators from both sides of the
house for the work they did on the Estimates. In particular I
want to thank our former chairman. Senator Hastings, for his
contribution to and leadership of the committee. I also wish to
thank Senator Di Nino, our deputy chairman who filled in for our
former chairman when he was away. I also want to thank Senator
Bosa, who chaired the very busy and difficult subcommittee on
budgets and personnel.

I wish to thank Senator LeBreton for moving and adopting
these Main Estimates in our committee and for her support of
them. Finally, I wish to thank all members and other senators
who attended l'or their comments and advice.
Honourable senators, this report before you today seeks
approval for expenditures totalling $40,712,500 for the operating
and capital expenditures of the Senate for the fiscal year
1996-97.
These estimates show a budget reduction of 3.1 per cent,
which reflects a cumulative reduction of 9 per cent over the last
five fiscal years. In 1991-92, the Senate's budget was
$44 million. For next year, our committee is asking for estimates
of $40.7 million. Under the leadership of Senator Lavoie-Roux,
the Internal Economy Committee decided some time ago that the
Senate's budget must be reduced through a combination of hard
work and tough decisions, and it has implemented significant
budget reductions.
Senator Lavoie-Roux and her committee, through different
administrative initiatives, implemented a variety of reductions
which resulted in greater efficiencies in operation. The number of
person years were reduced, as were the overall salary costs. Your
committee and, indeed. the entire Senate owe Senator
Lavoie-Roux a debt of gratitude for her efforts in controlling and
reducing the costs of running our legislature.
In 1994-95, the Senate budget was set at $42 million; the
following year, there was no change. On April 4, 1995. the
Senate approved a reduction of 4.2 per cent in the expenses of
the Senate. a target not yet reached. Since that time, 16 person
years have been eliminated: two in the Legislative Services
Directorate, four in the service of the Black Rod's office, and 10
in the Services Directorate.
Although the total salary savings in 1995-96 caused by the
elimination of these positions amount to $418.000. the total
annual future savings will be $662,000. Additional savings have
also been achieved in other areas of the budget. For example,

reductions in staff replacement in senators offices, printing of
brochures, the elimination of Senate tour guides, reducing
expenditures on furniture, fixtures and books l'or the Senate
reading room.
Since the present fiscal year is not completed, it is unclear how
close to the target of 4.2 per cent expenditure reduction we will
come. However, the results thus far are very positive, given the
fact that these reductions only took effect part-way through the
year.
I will now discuss some of the highlights of this budget and
bring to your attention some of your committee's concerns.
First, senators' research and office expenses: The budget for
senators' research and office expenses is still not fully funded.
Even with an increase in the 1996-97 budget, a major
discrepancy exists in this portion of the Senate estimates. There
remains a shortfall of 20 per cent. As you know, unlike the House
of Commons, senators have only one secretary on their
permanent staff and must rely totally on their research and
general office budget to provide them with research and support
assistance to carry out their duties. While recognizing that
members of the House of Commons have different
responsibilities and must maintain constituency offices,
nevertheless they have operating budgets in excess of $170,000.
Some have geographical and electoral supplements in excess of
$16,000 and $32,000 respectively, over and above their $170,000
operating budget. As well, the administration of the House of
Commons funds a wide range of office equipment in addition to
the members' operating budgets, and all of these items are fully
funded in the House of Commons estimates.
I should like to turn now to in-house printing. Contingent upon
the approval of the supplementary estimates, the budget l'or
outside printing services has decreased significantly. In the next
fiscal year. the Senate will begin printing its official documents
in-house. These documents are committee proceedings, Hansard,
the Senate minutes, and Senate bills. This program calls for an
increase of 1.5 person years as well as additional equipment and
maintenance costs. However, we estimate that even with these
additional expenditures, the net savings for the Senate will
be $600,000 annually, or $50,000 per month. Your committee bas
agreed that it will conduct a review of this program and other
items in six months to ensure that our cost saving measures are
on target.
With regard to staff reductions, as I mentioned earlier, a
number of positions were eliminated as part of the budgetary
restraint measures implemented in 1995-96. These staffing cuts,
combined with the elimination of the tour guide program and
other miscellaneous reductions, have resulted in the salary
budget being reduced by $971,000.
I must confess, honourable senators, that this is one of the
most difficult areas of our expenditure plan with which to deal.
These are not just numbers but real people with families
and careers who must face major readjustments in their lives. It
is not an easy task to watch them just walk out the door. The
Internal Economy Committee was determined to sec that they

Februarv 2, 1996
February

2,

1996

SENATE DEBATES
EAE
SNT

were treated fairly. Many of our employees were disheartened to
learn that what they perceived to be a long-term career with the
Senate would not happen and that, unexpectedly, they would be
faced with major decisions affecting their families. They have
had to reorient themselves, and have been assisted by the Senate
in this regard through counselling services and retraining
programs.
For many, such changes have not been easy. Some are
returning to a school environment after having been away for
several years, and have had to learn new skills. The Internal
Economy Committee's decision to eliminate these positions has
touched the lives of our employees in a real way. We did not
proceed in this direction without serious reflection and
consideration.
I must remind honourable senators that your committee still
has concerns regarding the budget. For example, last year's
budget for furniture and fixtures restricted purchases relating to
health and safety issues and very basic office equipment. If this
funding is to be maintained at the current level, the Senate will
soon see a significant deterioration of its furniture and
equipment. You cannot cut indefinitely both the budget for the
purchase of new furniture as well as the budget for making
repairs to existing furniture. You should cut one or the other, but
not both of these items.
In the long run, the Senate must make a major expense to
rectify accumulated problems. Moreover, needs arising from new
activities and increased usage of technology will not be
addressed with the current level of resources available. For
example, many of the desks and chairs which have been
purchased over the years are not adapted for computers; even our
computer work stations will have to be adjusted to accommodate
the new Windows environment which we are moving towards.
Building and maintenance alterations have also been reduced in
the last year and cover health and safety problems only. With this
level of resources, it is impossible to adapt to the evolving needs
of the workplace. It is also difficult to keep up the basic
maintenance of buildings. As an example, there have been
occasions when projects performed by Public Works on pipes or
electrical wires have remained unfinished because of the Senate's
incapacity to proceed with this part of the work.
Honourable senators, our budget estimates for 1996-97 leave
very littie flexibility to deal with ongoing operations in future
years. Furthermore, the Senate's ability to adapt to a changing
environment may be seriously hampered. Senate managers have
cut their budgets to the bone, and our committee has no room in
these estimates to deal with unexpected problems. This is not a
desirable situation for those charged with the administration of
an organization to be in. Many of the reductions do not represent
permanent cost savings and are merely a deferral of
expenditures. We believe that these expenses will have to be
incurred at some time in the future, but at a higher cost to the
Senate. This will mean increases in future budgets which will

make it difficult to reach 100 per cent funding for senators'
research and office expenses.
• (131m

Honourable senators, I ask for your support for the adoption of
this report. We started the process of cutting the budget of the
Senate some years ago. Our 3.1 per cent reduction for 1996-97
continues the same expenditure reduction trend. As an
institution, we have been very responsible and successful in
controlling our expenditures in this era of fiscal restraint. If we
compare the Senate with the other place, our record is very
positive.
Over the past five years, Senate expenditures have been
reduced by 7.2 per cent. During this same period, the actual
expenditures of the House of Commons have increased by
7.4 per cent. There exists in favour of the Senate a difference of
14.6 per cent with regard to actual expenditures.
In terms of budget estimates, in the last five years the budget
of the Senate has decreased by 9 per cent. Over the same period
of time, the estimates of the House of Commons have decreased
by only 5.3 per cent. Again, there is a difference in favour of the
Senate in the amount of 3.7 per cent with respect to the budget
estimates.
I believe the Senate has performed very well in demonstrating
expenditure restraint. We must also remember that the base we
start from is lower than that of the other place. We are still 20 per
cent short in funding fully for senators' research and office
expenses. We are concerned that this budget leaves us with
limited flexibility to handle unexpected problems, and your
committee will certainly be challenged in the year ahead.
I thank many of the senators and staff who worked in the
preparation of these estimates and ask that you give favourable
consideration to this report.
The Hon. the Acting Speaker: Honourable senators, is it your
pleasure to adopt the motion?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Motion agreed to and report adopted.
FORTY-FIFTH REPORT OF COMMITTEE ADOPTED
The Senate proceeded to consideration of the forty-fifth report
of the Standing Committee on Internal Economy, Budgets and
Administration, presented in the Senate on February 1, 1996.
Hon. Colin Kenny: Honourable senators, I move the adoption
of the report.
The Hon. the Acting Speaker: Is it your pleasure, honourable
senators, to adopt the motion?
Motion agreed to and report adopted.

FISHERIES
REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON ANNUAL REPORT OF
DEPARTMENT OF FISHERIES AND OCEANS ON THE
ATLANTIC GROUNDFISH FISHERY ADOPTED

The Senate proceeded to consideration of the second report of
the Standing Senate Committee on Fisheries entitled: "The
Atlantic Groundfish Fishery: Its Future". tabled in the Senate on
December 6 . 1995. - (Honourable Senator Rossiter)

Hon. Eileen Rossiter: Honourable senators, I move the
adoption of this report.
The Hon. the Acting Speaker: Is it your pleasure, honourable
senators, to adopt the motion?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Motion agreed to and report adopted.

BUSINESS OF THE SENATE
Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourable senators, I should like to comment
with respect to the other items on the Order Paper today. There
have been discussions, of course, with the leadership on the other
side with respect to this matter. There is only one item on the
Order Paper which an individual senator wishes to address today.
I refer to Item No. 75 standing in the name of Senator Cools.

We are mindful that the bells will begin to ring at 1:30 p.m. for
the vote to be taken at 2:00 p.m. and that the proceedings will be
interrupted at that time. I leave it to Senator Cools either to begin
now and resume after the vote at 2:00 p.m., or to deal with her
item after the vote at 2:00 p.m. That is entirely in the hands of
Senator Cools. knowing that she would have to be interrupted at
1:30 p.m.

Hon. Anne C. Cools: Honourable senators, I should like to
make my speech today. I am quite prepared to use the few
minutes prior to the ringing of the bells for the vote on
Bill C- 110, if that is acceptable.

Senator Graham: Honourable senators, I suggest that all
other Orders, Motions, Inquiries and Reports, stand with the
exception of Item No. 75.
The Hon. the Acting Speaker: Is it agreed, honourable
senators?

Hon. Senators: ALreed.

JUSTICE
DAMAGE TO PARLIAMENTARY PROCESS-DEBATE SUSPENDED

Hon. Anne C. Cools rose pursuant to notice of December 12,
1995:
That she will cal] the attention of the Senate to the
frequent reports in the national and international media,
including varied allegations naming the former Prime
Minister, the Rt. Honourable Brian Mulroney; the Minister
of Justice, the Honourable Allan Rock; Justice lawyer
Kimberly Prost; former Premier the Honourable Frank
Moores; the Royal Canadian Mounted Police; Airbus
Industrie SA; Georgio Pelossi: diplomats and others, being
matters that have become an aggressive and shameful public
spectacle: and to the handling of these matters: and to the
erosion of parliamentary process, and to the damage caused
to parliamentary government, to the Prime Minister's
Office, to the principle of ministerial responsibility. to
Parliament, and to senators, including herself. who voted on
Bill C-129, the bill to privatize Air Canada, on August 4,
1988, in the Standing Senate Committee on Banking. Trade
and Commerce: and to the belief that Parliament, in the
interest of public confidence, should take cognizance of
these matters and not leave them to conjecture, speculation
and the media, but instead take these matters into
Parliament's consideration.
She said: Honourable senators, in rising to speak to this
inquiry my intention is to place into formal debate in the Senate
the question of certain allegations by the Minister of Justice
against former prime minister Brian Mulroney regarding alleged
wrongdoing on his part in Air Canada's billion-dollar purchase of
aircraft from Airbus Industrie of Europe. I shall trace the passage
into law in 1988 of Bill C-129. which bill privatized Air Canada.
I shall show Parliament's interests, rights and obligations in this
alleged Airbus matter. Finally, I shall address Parliament's role in
these allegations.
For the record, I should like to state that I am neither a
defender nor accuser of Mr. Mulroney. I have no assumptions or
prejudgments about his guilt. As a matter of fact, consonant with
the common law principle and the rule of law, I assume that he is
innocent. My position is that as a member of Parliament I simply
need to know the grounds supporting the Minister of Justice's
allegations, as accusations of such enormity are not to be
undertaken casually.
Since November 1995, I have been disquieted that these
Airbus allegations have become an aggressive and shameful
public spectacle, a situation of unlimited speculation and
unbridled conjecture. Further, no one in Parliament, save a few
senators appointed by Mr. Mulroney. such as the courageous
Senator LeBreton, dare breathe a word in Mr. Mulroney's
defence, lest they, too. be savaged in this current atmosphere.
The sound of Parliament's silence in this matter is deafening.
This scandal of unprecedented proportions goes to the heart of
ministerial responsibility and undermines ministerial confidence
and responsible government. It compels
interposition Io assure public confidence.

Parliiament s

February 2, 1996

February2,
1996SENATE
DEBATES

Canada is a parliamentary and responsible government.
Parliament is the Supreme authority of Canada, legislatively,
judîcially and administratively. The doctrine of ministerial
goverfiment states that ministers are responsible to Parliament
and must maintain ils confidence. Ail govemnment departments
and agencies, as well as tribunals and courts, operate under this
notion of responsibility. Similarly, ail] office-holders, ministers,
deputy ministers, judges and police chiefs operate under the
same doctrine. A minîster answers to Parliament for every
department of Canadian life. Parliament bas a duty to hold its
ministers responsible, and is constituted to maintain the
responsibility of the ministry. No minister may abdicate
responsibility.
Honourable senators, 1 have neyer been a supporter of Brian
Mulroney. I recaîl that 1 invoked considerable wrath from
senators on both sides for mny rather brutal remarks about him in
this chamber on January 19, 1994 during the Throne Speech
debate. Among other descriptions, 1 said that be was:
A sorcerer's apprentice...
and

2633
23

Debate suspended.
*(I 4(H

CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENTS BILL
REPORT 0F COMMITTEEMOTION FOR ADOPTION NEGATIVED ON DIVISION

On the Order:
Resuming the debate on the motion of the Honourable
Senator Kinsella for the adoption of the Report of the
Special Committee on Bill C-I110, respecting constitutional
amendments, witb amendments.
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, it was moved by
the Honourable Senator Kinsella, seconded by the Honourable
senator Doyle, that this report be now adopted.
Is it your pleasure, honourable senators, to adopt the motion?

Deception was their hallmark.
Somne Hon. Senators: Yes.
Many senators on both sides thought that 1 was bard on him;
consequently, they were bard on me. However, when 1 spoke at
tbat tirne, 1 had nu tbought that Mr. Mulronecy was or could be
involved in any crime. Today, as a senator, 1 firmnly believe that
the government bas a duty to proceed fairly, judîciously,
non-capriciously, and 10 rise above tbe turbulence and tyranny of
passion.
On August 17, 1988, the Senate passed Bill C-129, to provide
for tbe continuance of Air Canada under tbe Canada Business
Corporations Act, and for tbe issuance and sale of sbares tbereof
to the public.
Honourable senators, 1 shahl continue my speech after the vote
on Bill C-l10.
The Hon. the Acting Speaker: I regret to interrupt the
bonourable senator; bowever, it is now 1:30.

Somne Hon. Senators: No.
The Hon. the Speaker: WilI those bonourable senators in
favour of the motion please say "yea"?
Some Hon. Senators: Yea.
The Hon. the Speaker: WiIl those honourable senators
opposed to the motion please say "nay"?
Some Hon. Senators: Nay.
The Hon. the Speaker: In my opinion, the "nays" bave it.
And two honourable senators having risen.

Pursuant to the order of this bouse, I now order that the belîs
be rung for haîf an hour.

The Hon. the Speaker: Please cati in the senators.

S
ABSTENTIONS

Motion negatived on the following division:ABTNI

THE HONOURABLE SENATORS

YEAS
THE HONOURABLE SENATORS
Keon
Kinsella
Lavo je-Roux
Lynch-Staunton
Meighen
Murray
Nolin
Oliver
Phillips
Rivest
Roberge
Robertson
Rossiter
Spivak
St. Germain
Stratton
Tkachuk
Watt-36.

Adams
Andreychuk
Atkins
Beaudoin
Berntson
Camey
Cohen
Comeau
DeWare
Di Nino
Doody
Doyle
Eyton
Forrestali
Ghitter
Gustafson
Kelleher
Kelly

THIRD READING

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, when shahl this
bill be read the third time?
Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Goverament): Honourable senators, with leave of the Senate
and notwithstanding rule 59(1 )(b), 1 move that this bill be read
the third time now.

The Hon. the Speaker: Is leave granted, honourable senators?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, it is moved by
the Honourable Senator Graham, seconded by the Honourable
Senator Thériault. that this bill be read the third time now.

NAYS
THE HONOURABLE SENATORS
Anderson
Austin
Bacon
Bonneil
Bosa
Bryden
Carstairs
Cools
Corbin
Davey
De Bané
Fairbairn
Gauthier
Gigantès
Gratstein
Graham
Haidasz
Hays
Hébert
Hervieux-Payette
Kenny
Kirby
Kolber
Lawson

Lewis
Losier-Cool
MacEachen
Maheu
Marchand
Milne
Olson
Pearson
Perrault
Petten
Pitfield
Poulin
Prud'homme
Rie!
Rizzuto
Robichaud
Rompkey
Roux
Stanbury
Stewart
Stoler
Thériault
Thomp son
Wood-MS.

It is your pleasure, honourable senators, to adopt the motion'?

An Hon. Senator: No.
The Hon. the Speaker: Would those honourable senators in
favour of the motion please say "yea"?

Some Hon. Senators: Yea.
The Hon. the Speaker: Would those honourable senators
opposed to the motion please say "nay"?
Some Hon. Senators: Nay.
The Hon. the Speaker: In my opinion, the "yeas" have it.
An Hon. Senator: On division.
Bill read third time and passed. on division.

SENATE DEBATES

February 2, 1996

[Translation]

ROYAL ASSENT
NOTICE

The Hon. the Speaker pro tempore informed the Senate that
the following communication had been received:
RIDEAU HALL
2 February 1996

I have the honour to inform you that The Right
Honourable Antonio Lamer, Chief Justice of Canada, in his
capacity as Deputy Governor General, will proceed to the
Senate Chamber today, the 2nd day of February 1996, at
3:00 p.m., for the purpose of giving Royal Assent to a Bill.
Yours sincerely,
Judith A. LaRocque
Secretary to the Governor General

The Honourable
The Speaker of the Senate
Ottawa

2635

1988, in the Standing Senate Committee on Banking, Trade
and Commerce; and to the belief that Parliament, in the
interest of public confidence, should take cognizance of
these matters and not leave them to conjecture, speculation
and the media, but instead take these matters into
Parliament's consideration.
Hon. Anne C. Cools: I thank honourable senators for their
indulgence.
Honourable senators, I am pleased to resume my speech on
this order on the Airbus allegations. I had been saying that
Bill C-129, the Air Canada bill, passed in this chamber in August
of 1988. On August 18, 1988, it received Royal Assent.
Bill C-129 was examined by the Senate Banking, Trade and
Commerce Committee, chaired by a Liberal senator, Senator Ian
Sinclair. I was a member of that committee, and I voted to pass
that bill unamended, both in committee and in this chamber. The
Mulroney cabinet proposed that a sound reason for privatizing
Air Canada was the airline's need for fleet replacement conjoined
with its need for capital, and proposed that such capital be raised
by selling equity in the airline. My Liberal side, then in
opposition and the majority in the Senate, accepted these
proposals. We passed Bill C-129 without amendment.
Government Senator William Kelly, moving second reading of
Bill C-129 on July 21, 1988, said:
... Air Canada requires capital: capital to modernize its fleet
and equity capital to regear its leverage... Over the next five
years the airline will require $2.5 billion or more for fleet
replacement...

[English]

JUSTICE
DAMAGE TO PARLIAMENTARY PROCESSDEBATE ADJOURNED

On the Order:
Resuming the debate on the inquiry of the Honourable
Senator Cools:
That she will call the attention of the Senate to the
frequent reports in the national and international media,
including varied allegations naming the former Prime
Minister, the Rt. Honourable Brian Mulroney; the Minister
of Justice, the Honourable Allan Rock; Justice lawyer
Kimberly Prost; former Premier the Honourable Frank
Moores; the Royal Canadian Mounted Police; Airbus
Industrie SA; Georgio Pelossi; diplomats and others, being
matters that have become an aggressive and shameful public
spectacle; and to the handling of these matters; and to the
erosion of parliamentary process, and to the damage caused
to parliamentary government, to the Prime Minister's
Office, to the principle of ministerial responsibility, to
Parliament, and to senators, including herself, who voted on
Bill C-129, the bill to privatize Air Canada, on August 4,

On August 4, 1988, Deputy Prime Minister Don Mazankowski
told our Senate Banking Committee that:
As a corporation, Air Canada will have access to new,
cheaper equity capital... For employees, it will afford the
opportunity to purchase shares...
Honourable senators, in March 1985, three years prior to the
passage of Bill C-129, Prime Minister Brian Mulroney and
Minister of Transport Don Mazankowski dismissed the board of
directors of Air Canada and appointed a new board in its stead that is, 13 new directors.
In this chamber on March 19, 1985, Senator Ian Sinclair
questioned government leader Senator Duff Roblin on the
government's extraordinary action:
My question bas nothing to do with patronage; my
question has to do with a proper conduct of business
organizations.
Is it not good business practice to have some continuity in
boards of directors?
Honourable senators, while voting on Bill C-129, it never
entered my mind that there was a connection between these 1985
appointments and the 1988 passage of Air Canada legislation. as
is now alleged.

On August 2, 1988, Pierre Jeanniot, chief executive officer of
Air Canada, told our Senate committee:
It seems particularly appropriate to mention briefly a
question of fleet renewal, since we have just announced the
purchase of 34 new Airbus A320 aircraft, which will
eventually replace our Boeing 727 fleet.
Air Canada had announced the same a few days prior, on
July 20, 1988.
Honourable senators, I never contemplated any connection
between this aircraft purchase, passage of this bill, and
wrongdoing on the part of the cabinet or the Prime Minister.
Parliament is a judicial body whose members are vested with
legislative and judicial powers corporately and institutionally
held, enabling them to fulfil the functions of representative and
responsible government. The Parliament of Canada is the
supreme authority of the land, the "Grand Inquest" of the nation,
and the highest court in this land.
Honourable senators, the Fathers of Confederation constituted
and composed the Senate very deliberately. These wise men said
that this Senate would last as long as this country, Canada, would
last. They constituted this Upper House to embody the federal
principle of Canada. It is the house traditionally empowered to
investigate misconduct of persons in high office.
The Senate must take this matter into its cognizance and
exercise the full range of its inquisitorial, judicial, penal and
legislative powers to examine, to judge, and finally to exonerate
or prosecute Mr. Mulroney by order or statute.
This Airbus scandal originates in a Ministry of Justice dispatch
to the Government of Switzerland, which was leaked. This
government-to-government dispatch carried the full force and
weight of the Government of Canada and the Minister of Justice.
This extraordinary document was executed by Kimberley Prost,
senior counsel to the International Assistance Group of the
ministry. The Toronto Star, on November 19, 1995, quoted this
dispatch which claimed that Mr. Mulroney
...was involved in a criminal conspiracy to accept payments
for influencing Air Canada's decision to buy airplanes from
Airbus.
and that the conspiracy
...defrauded the Canadian government in the amount of
millions of dollars.
The Globe and Mail, on January 8, 1996, in an article by
former minister of Justice John Crosbie, also quoted this dispatch
as follows:
...the investigation is of special importance to the Canadian
government, as it deals with criminal activities of a former
prime minister.

[ Senmaor Cools 1

Extraordinary! The underlying implications are that
Mr. Mulroney corrupted parliamentary proceedings by
persuading members, commoners and senators, in government
and in opposition, to pass Bill C-129 so that he could derive
pecuniary advantage and enrichment; that is, that he degraded,
corrupted and perverted voting and proceedings in Parliament.
Ms Prost's words and actions, speaking as the Ministry of
Justice, thus impeach a government, a cabinet, and a Parliament
itself. She impeaches proceedings in Parliament and the passage
of Bill C-129, in which I participated as a legislator, as a
parliamentarian, and as a senator.
Ms Prost has initiated actions reflecting on the highest level of
ministerial responsibility, risking contempt of Parliament, and
seems not to comprehend the fact that the substance of her
dispatch is the substance of fallen governments, ministries, and
ministers. Conversely. Mr. Mulroney's counsel, Roger Tassé,
former deputy minister of Justice, certainly comprehends these
matters. Ms Prost has risked a high breach of her position and of
Parliament.
The Minister of Justice is no ordinary minister, and the
Ministry of Justice is no ordinary ministry. They possess a
distinct judicial character. The Minister of Justice is the Attorney
General, the chief law officer of the Crown, the chief legal
adviser to the government, and the chief legal adviser to Her
Majesty. The Attorney General, as an office and minister, is
deemed to embody the principles of justice and is, by convention
and tradition. expected to uphold the judicial character and
pre-eminence of Parliament.
The ministry's actions have politicized the Royal Canadian
Mounted Police, effecting a divide between its police work and
its political interests. The RCMP has been compelled to engage
in politics. It must now protect its own position, its own interests
and credibility. by engaging in preservationist and defensive
activity. To date, the RCMP has laid no charges against
Mr. Mulroney. It may now be compelled to do so, with or
without evidence, whether the charges may be founded or
unfounded. That a police agency is in this position is a grave
matter, and is of grievous consequence to the citizens of Canada,
to Parliament, and to Her Majesty. That a police agency's actions
in investigating and laying charges have become suspect is an
intolerable state of affairs in a parliamentary government.
The politicization of the mounted police is revealed even in
news reports. The Toronto Star of December 23, 1995, cites an
anonymous RCMP source as saying:
We figure we must have hit a nerve there,
and:
We're covered on this... We did our job. Based on the
information we had, we're pursuing it.

February 2, 1996

February 2, 1996

SENATE DEBATES

SENATE DEBATES

Honourable senators, what is covered? Who is covered? We
should bring these anonymous sources to the Senate bar.
This matter of alleged misconduct of a former prime minister
involves more issues than allegations of ordinary crime. The
Airbus allegations and the handling thereof have been deeply
political, but the political activity has not been by politicians or
Members of Parliament. Had a crime been committed, the matter
may now be so obscured and confounded as to be justice denied.
Further, the ministry's actions are also politicizing the judiciary
and the courts. This is revealed as the media engages the
judiciary, and is made evident in press stories on the judiciary's
rulings, bearing such titles as "Customized Justice for
Mulroney," "Mulroney Granted Fast-track Justice in Airbus Libel
Suit." The Gazette editorial, "Customized Justice for Mulroney,"
from December 14, 1995, stated:
By according special treatment, Justice Poitras has perhaps
made Mr. Mulroney's lawsuit less costly for him.
The editorial continued:
...If Justice Poitras's ruling is not favoritism, it at least gives
the impresssion of it.
0 (1420)

Uncharacteristically and improperly, the judiciary is
responding. About Mr. Justice Rochon, the judge assigned by
Chief Justice Poitras to hear the Mulroney libel suit in its
entirety, The Toronto Star, December 18, 1995, reports that he:
...promised in an interview last week that the case will
proceed in a transparent manner and that the media will be
able to stay on top of the proceedings as it winds its way to
trial.
The Toronto Star quoted Justice Rochon saying:
...I will take the necessary steps to ensure that everyone will
be able to keep track of the case, reporters and everyone
else.
I suppose "everyone else" includes all of us senators.
The courts, like the RCMP, have been placed in a novel and
unlikely position. It would appear that both these organs of state
are forgetful of Parliament's role in parliamentary governance.
Parliament should remind them.
This story has been a bonanza for the media. The shareholders
of press and broadcasting conglomerates involved in the
commerce of reporting news rejoice in this windfall. Their
primary objective is profit; not justice and fair play. The market
value of publicity to certain persons, such as Mr. Georgio Pelossi,
the author of these allegations, is profound. He is undoubtedly
measuring his substantial benefits. News reports nevertheless
admit that Mr. Pelossi's personal credibility is in serious question
since he is facing several serious criminal charges in Europe.

2637

2637

The Department of Justice and the Government of Canada
allege that former prime minister Mulroney and former Premier
Frank Moores were involved in criminal activity. It is now very
questionable that Mr. Mulroney may ever be charged with a
criminal offence. The instrument of criminal prosecution in
Canada is the Criminal Code. The relevant sections are in Part IV
entitled "Offences Against Law and Justice." I would assume
that the sections concerning influence peddling and breach of
trust by a public officer would be the contemplated charges
against Mr. Mulroney.
Even if charges were laid, a conviction by the courts would be
unlikely. The courts and their proceedings are bound by the rules
of evidence, the burden of proof, and by judicial prohibitions on
politics and political activity. In addition, it is fundamental to a
successful criminal prosecution that each and every element of
the offence be proven beyond a reasonable doubt.
The consideration and adjudication of those discreet elements
necessary to be proven so as to form a conviction are beyond the
court's competence and jurisdiction. Votes and proceedings in
Parliament, cabinet decisions and documents and prime
ministerial appointments are not subject to the court's
jurisdiction.
Mr. Mulroney's issues are different from Mr. Moores' because
Mr. Mulroney was in office as Prime Minister at the time of the
alleged offences. The Criminal Code has general application in
Canada for all citizens. However, when office-holders commit
offences while in high office of Parliament, the plenary
importance of the office subjects them to additional laws,
authorities and courts. An offending prime minister is also
subject to the law of Parliament, the lex et consuetudo
parlianienti,to the high court of Parliament and the pleasure of
Her Majesty. The misconduct of a prime minister while in office
is the just business of the high court of Parliament, the "Grand
Inquest" of the nation. Such misconduct activates and engages
the judicial pre-eminence of the high court and Parliament.
The allegations are that Mr. Mulroney used the high offices of
Prime Minister, the cabinet, the House of Commons and the
Senate to traffic in appointments, influence, offices, proceedings
and votes in Parliament and legislation. They allege that
Mr. Mulroney was unfaithful to his office and to his country.
Honourable senators, these issues, so deeply clouded in
suspicion, have not been properly put before the Canadian
public, and have not been put before the Senate at all. Corruption
and breach of high political office for pecuniary enrichment are
more than crime. Such breach is a malversation. A malversation
is the highest offence of office and is defined as corrupt
behaviour committed in the exercise of an office or commission
for economic gain. It is a grievous misconduct. No police agency,
no court of justice may process a prime minister's malversation
without Parliament's cognizance and direction. The only tribunal
that is competent, qualified or constitutionally able to investigate
and judge this matter is the Parliament of Canada. Further,
Parliament's examination into this matter would not be inhibited
or obstructed by any libel suit proceeding in the courts.

Mr. Georgio Pelossi's and Justice lawyer Kimberley Prost's
accusations against Mr. Mulroney accuse me and every other
senator in this chamber. It is odious to me that as a senator 1
stand accused in this alleged Mulroney malversation by virtue of
my voting on Bill C-129, the enabling legisiation. It is my right
as a member of Parliament to know the truth. 1 wish to exercise
that right. No court in this land but this court, Parliament, can
examine and adjudicate the questions of prime ministerial
activities. ministerial appointments, cabinet activities, political
relationships, voting and proceedings in Parliament and
wrongdoing therein.
Honourable senators, I ask Parliament to take cognizance ot
this matter and to engage the full range of its inquisitorial,
judicial and legisiative powers. Parliament must vigorously
repudiate these allegations as a wanton, reckless and malicious
attack on former prime minister Mulroney or, in the alternative,
Parliament must give them credence and pursue him to
destruction by issuing articles of impeachment; but Parliament
must act decisively.
On motion of Senator Bemntson. debate adjourned.

ADJOURNMENT
Leave having been given to reveil to Govemment Notices of'
Motions:

The Hon. the Speaker: Is leave granted. honourable senators?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Motion agreed to.
The Senate adjoumned during pleasure.
[Translation]

ROYAL ASSENT
The Right Honourable Antonio Lamer. Chief Justice ot
Canada, in bis capacity as Deputy Governor General, having
come and being seated at the foot of the Thronc. and the
House of Commons having been summoned. and being come
with their Deputy Speaker the Right Honourable the Deputy
Govemnor General was pleased to give the Royal Assent to, the
following bill:
An Act respecting constitutional amendments (Bill C- 110,
Chapter 1, 1996)
The House of Commons withdrew.
Thc Right Honourablc the Deputy Governor General was

Hon. B. Alasdair Graham (Deputy Leader of the
Government): Honourable senators, with leave of the Senate

pleased to retire.

and notwithstanding rule 58(l)(h), I movc:
That when the Senate adjourns today, it do stand
adjourned until Tuesday next, February 6, 1996, at two
o'clock in the afternoon.

The sitting of the Senate was resumed.
The Senate adjourned until Tucsday, February 6, 1966, at
2 p.m.

The Thiirtv -fifthi Parliamentnas prorogliedb.) Proclamnation on Fridav, Februarv 2, 1996

INDEX

ABBREVIATIONS
I r, 2r. 3r
amdt (s)
com
div
inq
m
neg
qu
(r)
ref
rep
r.a.
st

=
=
=
=
=
=
=
=
=
=
=
=
=

first. second. third reading
amendment (s)
committee
division
inquiry
motion
negatived
question
response (to a question)
referred
report
Royal Assent
statement

Acts passed during the Session
PUBLIC ACTS
Bill No.

Ghapier

As.senred Io Februarv 8, 1994

1

West Coast Ports Operations, 1994 ...............................................................

C-tO

Assenfed to March 24, 1994

2
3
4
5
6

Federal -Provincial Fiscal Arrangements and Federal Post-Secondary Education and Health Contributions amendment
Customs Tariff amendment.....................................................................
Borrowing Authority Act. 1994-95 ...............................................................
Appropriation Act No. 3. 1993-94................................................................
Appropriation Act No. 1, 1994-95................................................................

C-3
. ...
C-5
C- 14
C-19
C-20

Aisserted r<'MaY 12. 1994

7
8
9
10
il
12
13
14
15
16

Income Tax Amendments Revision ...............................................................
Income Tax amendment .......................................................................
Excise Tax amendment .......................................................................
Canada Oil and Gas Operations, Canada Petroleum Resources, National Energy Board amendment ..................
Crown Liability and Proceedings amendment........................................................
Criminal Code and Coastal Fisheries Protection amendment..............................................
Department of National Revenue amendment........................................................
Coastal Fisheries Protection amendment ...........................................................
Railway Safety amendment.....................................................................
National Sports of Canada .....................................................................

C-1 5
C-9
C-13
C-6
C-4
C-8
C-2
C-29
C-21
C-212

Assented to June 15, 1994

17
18
19
20
21

Income Tax Conventions ......................................................................
Budget Implementation. 1994...................................................................
Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Suspension. 1994 ..................................................
National Library amendrnent....................................................................
Income Tax. Incomec Tax Application Rules. Canada Pension Plan. Canada Business Corporations. Excise Tax.
Unemiploynient Insurance arnendment........................................................

S-2
C-17
C-18
C-26
C-27

Acts passed during the Session-Cont!'d
PUBLIC ACTS-Cow'd
Assented to J,,;; 23, 1994
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33

Migratory Birds Convention. 1994 ....................................................................
Canada Wildlife amendment..................
.....................................................
Canada Business Corporations amendment ..............................................................
Canadian Film Development Corporation amendment....................................................
Miscellaneous Statute Law Amendment. 1994 ...........................................................
Sahtu Dene and Metis Land Clairn Seulement ..............................................
.............
Canada Student Financial Assistance..................................................................
Excise Tax. Excise. Income Tax amendment............................................................
Department of Labour amendment............ .......................................................
Department of Citizenship and Immigration .............................................................
Auditor General (reports) amendment.................................................................
Appropiation No. 2. 1994-95.......................................................................

C-23
C-24
C-12
C-31
C-40
C- 16
C-28
C-32
C-30
C-35
C-207
C-39

Asseui;ed to Jîîlv 7. 1994
34
35

Yukon First Nations Land Claims Seutlement ............................................................
Yukon First Nations Self-Government.................................................................

C-33
C-34

As.îenId ra Alotenber 24, 1994
36
37
38
39

Canada Petroleum Resources amcndment ...............................................................
Excise. Customs and Tobacco Sales to Young Persons amendment ............................................
Department of Agriculture amendment .................................................................
Canadian Wheat Board amendmrent ............................................
.......................

40)
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48

Marine Transportation Security Act...................................................................
Departmnent of Natural Resources Act.................................................................
Split Lake Cree First Nation Floodcd Land Act..........................................................
Yukon Surface Rights Board Act.....................................................................
Crimînal Code amendmient (mîscellaneous mnatters) .......................................................
Canada Grain Act amendment ....................................................................
Canadian Environmental Assessment Act amendment .....................................................
World Trade Organization Agreemnent Implémentation Act ................................................
Appropriation Act No. 3. 1994-95....................................................................

Au, enfed

bo

C-25
C-Il
C-49
C-50

Deceunber 15. 1994
C-38
C-48
C-36
C-55
C-42
... C-51
C-56
ý. C-57
C-63

Ass.enied Io Marc/i 16, 1995
I
2

Department of lndustry Act.........................................................................
West Coast Ports Operations Act. 1995 .................................................................

3
4
5
6
7

Income Tax. Income Tax Application Rules amendment ....................................................
Pictou Landing Indian Band Agreement Act .............................................................
Department of Foreign Affairsand International Trade Act .............................
Maintenance of Railway Operations Act. 1995 ..........................................
Unemployînent Insurance amendment (jury service) .......................................................

C-46
C-74

A sse,îîed Io Marci 26. 1995

.....................
.................

C-59
C-60
C-47
C-77
C-216

A.iAenhec Io Marc/i 30, 1995
8
9
10)

Borrowing Authority Act. 1995-96....................................................................
Appropniation Act No. 4. 1994-95....................................................................
Appropriation Act No. 1. 1995-96....................................................................

C-73
C-79
C-80

As.senawd t Jiune 1.5. 1995
Il
12
13
14
Is
I16

Department of Canadian Heritage Act.................................................................
Lobbyîsîs Registiation amendment ....................................................................
Far-m'Impiovéement and Marketing Cooperatives Loans amcendmnent ..............................
.............
Buffalo and Foit Erie Public Bidge~ Conmpany amnendînent ..................................................
Imiigiration. Citizcnsbip. Custoros amendineni;............................................................
Appropiation Act No. 2. 1995-96....................................................................

C-53
C-43
C-75
C-81
C44
C-97

INDEX

Acts passed during the Session-Cont 'd
PUBLIC ACTS-Cont 'd
Assented Io June 22, 1995

17
18
19
20
21
22

Budget Implementation Act, 1995................................................................
Veterans Review and Appeal Board Act ...........................................................
Young Offenders. Criminal Code amendment.......................................................
Alternative Fuels Act .........................................................................
Income Tax. Income Tax Application Rules amnendment ................................................
Criminal Code amendment (sentencing) ...........................................................

C-76
C-67
C-37
S-7
C-70
C-4

13,
Assented to JuIv% 1995

23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33

C-86
Canadian Dairy Commission amendment...........................................................
C-89
CN Commercialization Act.....................................................................
C-87
Chemical Weapons Convention Implementation Act...................................................
Royal Canadian Mint amendment................................................................C-82
C-104
Criminal Code. Young Offenders amendment (forensie DNA analysis)......................................
C-91
SmaI! Business Bank of Canada Act ..............................................................
C-65
Government Organization Act (Federal Agencies) ....................................................
C-85
Members of Parliament Retiring Allowances amendment ...............................................
C-92
Canadian Wheat Board amendment...............................................................
C-72
Criminal Code amendment (self-induced intoxication) .................................................
OId Age Security. Canada Pension Plan. Children's Special Allowances
C-54
Unemployment Insurance amendment........................................................
Assenred to Novemn ber 8, 1995

34
35
36
37

Canada-United States Tax Convention Act. 1984 .....................................................
Explosives amendment........................................................................
Excise Tax. Excise amendment .................................................................
Income Tax Conventions Implementation. 1995 ......................................................

S-9
C-71I
C-90
C-10-

Assented to Deceinber 5. 1995

38
39
40
41

Cultural Property Export and Import, Income Tax and Tax Court of Canada amendment .........................
Firearms Act...............................................................................
Agriculture and Agri-Food Administrative Monetary Penalties Act ........................................
............................................................
Customs. Customs Tariff amendment

C-93
C-68
C-61
C102

Assenied to Decemiber 15, 1995

42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49

Corrections and Conditional Release. Criminal Code, Criminal Records, Prisons and Reformatories and
C-45
Transfer of Offenders amendment...........................................................
Auditor General ainendment....................................................................C-83
C-64
Employrncnt Equity Act.......................................................................
C- 107
British Columbia Treaty Commission Act ..........................................................
C-103
Excise Tax and Income Tax amendment ...........................................................
C 108
National Housing amendment...................................................................
C-99
Small Business Loans amendment................................................................
C-116
Appropriation Act No, 3, 1995-96 ...............................................................
Assented to Februarv 2, 1996

1

Constitutional Amendments ....................................................................

C-110

PRIVATE ACTS
Chaprer

Bill No.
Ass'nred Io June 15. 1994

49

Canadian Association of Lutheran Congregations .........................................................

S-5

Asse,îrec to June 23, 1994
50

General Security Insurance Company of Canada ....................................................

..... S-3

Assenied Io Deceinher 15. 199.5
50

Evang-elical Missionary Church (Canada West District) Act.................................................

S-12

INDEX
Aboriginal peoples
Co-management agreements in Saskatchewan, request for
particulars. qu. 1706-07
Plight of Lubicon Indians. intervention of World Council of
Churches, st. 1888-89
Rate of illiteracy among native youth. government position.
qu. 2384-8
Report of Senate Committee on plight of aboriginal veterans. request
for response. qu. 2233
Right to self-determination. govemment position. qu. 2384
Scholarship for aboriginal veterans. request for response to report
of Standing Senate Comimittee. qu. 2540

Aboriginal peuples, native self-government. inquiry. 689. 1018
Speaker: Senator
Twmnn. Walter P.. 689

Aboriginal Peoples, Standing Senate Committee
Authority to change date of presentation of final report, 688
Authority to engage services. adopted. 1678
Authority to examine and report upon the treatment of aboriginal
veterans following World War I. World War Il and the
Korean War, 8-9. 37-39
Manitoba Justice Inquiry. 38. 39
Métis veterans. 38. 39
National Aboriginal Veterans Association. 39
Transfer of land ownership. 38. 39
Authority to meet during sittings of the Senate. 779, 872, 1085, 2462
Membership
See Journals of the Senate
Reports
1lst, Treatment of aboriginal veterans following World War I.
World War Il and the Korean War, 626. adopted. 681
See Journals of the Senate
2nd. Sahtu Dene and Métis Land Claim Setulement bill C-16.
without amndt. 743
3rd. Yukon First Nations Land Claims Settlement bill C-33,
without amdt. 784
See Journals of the Senate
4th. Yukon First Nations Self-overnment bill C-34.
without amdt. 788
See Journals of the Senate
5th. Split Lake Cree First Nation Flooded Land bill C-36,
without amdt. 1039
6th, Treatment of aboriginal peoples. extension of final report
date. 1082. adopted. 1104-05
7th. Yukon Surface Rights Board bill C-55, without amdt but
witb an observation, 1093-96
8th, Pictou Landing Indian Band Agreement bill C-60.
without amndt. 1355
9th. Treatment of aboriginal veterans. tabled. 1469, 1481-83,
1493-94, adopted, 1655-56
Grievances. 1494
Independent investigator. 1494
Living conditions of veterans. 1482. 1494
9th. Treatment of aboriginal veterans-Conr 'd
Patemnalism. 1482, 1494
Recognition of contribution. 1494
Remembrance Day services. 1482. 1494
Scholarship fund. 1482. 1494
Speakers: Senators
Andreychuk. A. Raynell. 1481-82. 1655-56
Perrault. Raymond J.. 1482-83. 1493-94
IOth. British Columbia Treaty Commission bill C lt07.
without arndt. 2486

Aboriginal rights
Study of low-level military flights over Labrador. denial of
opportunity for anthropologist to give full testimony.
st. 992-93

Aboriginal war veterans honoured, st. 1724-25
l'Above the Law"
See Book entitled -Above the Law"
Adams, Hon. WiIlie
110 Special Senate Committee.
Constitutional Amendments bill C-I
m to establish. 2548
Firearms bill C-68, 1910-11. 1912
Registration, 1910
Storage, 1911
Gun control legislation
Consequences for aboriginal communities, st. 2346
Presentation of petition. 2317
Sahtu Dene and Métis Land Claim Setulement bill C-I1 6. 676
Tributes on l8th anniversary of appointment to the Senate, 1522
Address ini reply to Speech frotn the Throne
Consideration of Speech from the Throne. 5-6; termination of debate
on eighth sitting day, 8; 36-37
Motion for an Address in reply, Hon. Philippe Deane Gigantès.
9-12; seconded Hon. Anne C. Cools, 12-15;
adopted. on div, 259
Speakers: Senators
Angus, W. David. 256-59
Beaudoin. Gérald-A., 49, 55-56
Berntson, Eric Arthur. 243. 259
Bosa. Peter. 104-05
Buchanan, John, 143-45. 146
Corbin. Eymard G.. 149
De Bané. Pierre, 142-43
DeWare, Mabel M., 191-93
Fairbairn. Joyce, 30, 31-33, 34, 35-36
Ghitter, Ron, 59, 81-84
Grafstein, Jerahmiel S., 56-59
Grahamn, B. Alasdair, 115-17
Grimard. Normand, 87-88, 89
Hastings, Earl A.. 54
Kelly. William M., 49-52
Kinsella. Noël A., 146-49
Lynch-Staunton. John. 26-30
Molgat. Gildas L., 243, 259
Murray, LoweIl. 188-91
Oliver, Donald H.. 105-07
OIson, H.A.. 52-55
Perrault, Raymond J., 85-87
Rivest, Jean-Claude, 139-42. 143
St. Germain, Gerry. 120-23
Stanbury, Richard J., 78-81
Thériault, L. Norbert, 141, 142
Tkachuk, David, 117-20
Adjourament, 2, 184.214,298,301.350.353,397. 421.479. 501,570.
619. 627, 728, 790, 836, 871, 951, 1109, 1177, 1182.
1210, 1223. 1236, 1250, 1297, 1339. 1446, 1450. 1493,
1500, 1547. 1597, 1649. 1705. 1727, 1739, 1800. 1982,
2037. 2068. 2099, 2109, 2132. 2152. 2208, 2264, 2348,
2362, 2382. 2399. 2458 2461-62, 2549, 2584. 2638
Leave having been given to revert to Government Notices
of Motion. 1177. 1178
Agriculture
Canadian Wheat Board
Continuation of marketing rnonopoly. presentation of petitions.
12821 1547-48
Granting of monopoly powers for the exîiort marketing of
ail g-rains and oilseeds. presentation of' petitions.
919. 1204-05

Agriculture-Coint'd
Canadian Wheat Board-Cont'd
Proposed increase in initial prîce of grain. government position,
qu. 2119
Timing of examination by experts. government position. qu. 2011
Crow rate. costs of transporting grain. governiment position. qu. 666.
(r) 834-35
Delay in grain shipment frorn prairies, Ooverninent position. qu. 321.
(r) 455-56
Farm Safety Week. st. 1297
Grain handling capacity of Ports of Vancouver and Prince Rupert.
st. 378
Grain transportation, possible sale of hopper cars. government
position. qu. 2440
Handling of' grain on west coast. effect of failure to meet
commitments. government position. qu. 454. (r0 655
Imposition of U.S. import tax on Canadian sugar products.
discussion with President during upcoming visit.
qu. 1211-12
Improvement in international grain market, request for analysis ot
situation, qu. 1223. (r) 1361
Movement of grain on west coast. government position. qu. 422
Potato blight in New Brunswick. compensation for damages
sustained by growers. ggovernment position. qu. 1213,
(r) 1303-04
Reduction in grain transportation subsidies. assistance to farmers for
increase in rail freig-ht costs. govern ment position.
qu. 1238
Reduction of transportation subsidies. eftect on Manitoba economy.
qu. 1238
Reinstatement of Crow Rate subsidy. presentation ol petition. 1282
Strike by west coast longshoremen. delay in introducing
back-to-work legislation. 47-48
Threat to sugar industry under new GATT rules. government
position. qu. 1110- 11.(r) 1240-41
Toronto. status of trade neg-otiations. government position. qu. 239
Transportation of grain. shortage oi hopper cars. governiment
position. qu. 285
Western giain marketing. possibility of naitional plcbiscitc.
covernment position. qu. 2491-92. (r) 2610
Western -tain transportation. backhaul to Thunder Bay. government
position. qu. 1041, (r) 1190
Agriculture and Agri-Food Administrative Monetary Penalties
bill C-61. Ir. 2176; 2r. 2212-14: ref 10 com. 2214:
rep wîthout amdt. 2362: 3r. 2372: r.a.. chap. 40, 1995.
2411
Absolute liability. 2213
Animal and plant health program. 2212
Appeals. 22-12
Enforcement of penalties. 2213
Food safety. 2212
Pesticides, 2212
Tribunal. 2213
Speakers: Senators
Hays. Dan, 2212-13. 2214
Rossiter. Eileen. 2213-14
Agriculture and Forestry, Standing Senate Committee
Autbority to continue its special study on farm safety. 166, 232
Autbority to continue its special study on tarm safety and extend
date of presentation of final report. Il 64
Auîhority 10 continue its special study on the future of agriculture
in Canada, 1339
Auihority to engage sersvices. 166. 234
Au hoii
uN examine the fuituie of aLî
ricultîîe i n Canada. 549.
adopied. 594-97
ALerieultui e and Agri-food. HOLISe 01 Co0MI1onS SIbCOiiiitee.
595

Heel indusuxi-. 595

Agriculture and Forestry, Standing Senate Committee-Coin 'd
Auîhority to examine-Coni'd
Bîlateral concerrns. 595
Cereals and oilseeds. 594
GATT. 594
GRIP. 594
Mexico. 596
NAFFA. 594
Pork industry. 594
Sbared expenses witb Commons committee. 596
Speakers: Senators
Gustafson. Leonard L. 597
Hays. 1)an, 594-97
Stewart. John B.. 596
Autbority to meet during sitting of the Senate. 302
Authority 10 permit coverage of proceedingas by electronie media.
689.,739
Authoriîy io postpone date of final report. adopîed. 1740-41
Autbority to study the present state and future of agriculture and
agnifood. 2226, 2239
Authority to table final report on farm satety and farm related healtb
issues. 1838. adopted. 1975
Membership
Sec Journals of the Senate
Reports
lst. expenses incurred during 3rd Session. 34th Parliament.
tabled. 92
See Journals of the Senate
2-nd. Departmneni of Agriculture amendment bill C-49. 937
3rd. Canadian Wheat Board amendment bill C-50, 983
4th. lnterim. future of agriculture in Canada. tabled. 1108,
1143-48
Agîi-food industîy. 1144
Atlantic Canada freîght rate subsidy. 1146
Budget restrictions. 1145
Carryover stocks. 1148
Comînittee budget, 1147
Domestic subsîdy reduction. 1146
Environmental impact studies. 1148
Farm income safety net programs. 1144. 1147. 1148
Food standards. 1145
Integration of market information and market intelligence. 1146
Market globalization. 1145
National Farmers' Union. 1148
Processed foods. 1147
Research and development. 1144, 1145. 1147
Rural development. 1145
Saskatchewan
Association
of
Rural
Municipalities
(SARM). 1148
Subsidies. 1146
Speakers: Senators
Haidasz. Stanley. 1147
Hays. Dan. 1143-46, 1147
Lynch-Staunton. John. 1147
Robertson, Brenda M.. 1146
Spivak. Mira. 1147
5th. future of agriculture in Canada. power to travel. 1109:
adopted. 1175
See Journals of the Senate
6th, Canada Grain amendment bill C-5 I. without amdt. 1162
7th. Far-m Improvement and Marketing Cooperatîves Loans
amendment bill C-75, wîthout amdt. 1739
8th. Canadian Dairy Commission aînendment bill C-86
without amndi. 1923
9Kh larmi saleiv. tahlcd. 1977. 20192-95. debate c'oncluded. 2372
Speaker: Sen:iioi
I-aD.lan. 2092-9i
I th. CXînad ian Vvheait Boar d aieinen
eni bilIl C-91. ssitihou t aid.
1978

INDEX
Agriculture and Forestry, Standing Senate Commnittee-Conr 'd
lith. Agricultural trade. report on fact-finding missions to
Washington and Winnipeg. 2095. 2125-28
American souls conservation program, 2126
Canadian Wheat Board, 2126. 2127, 2128
Canadian Wheat Board Advisory Committee, 2127, 2128
Canola. 2128
Confirmation of tabling of report. 2067
Dual marketing. 2127. 2128
Speakers: Senators
Gustafson, Leonard J.. 2128
Hays. Dan. 2125-28
I
2th. Agriculture and Agri-food Administrative Monetary Penalties

bill C-61, without amndt. 2362
Agriculture Canada, federal expenditure on research, tabled. 1192
Agriculture Food Canada, tabled. 2083
Agriculture, grain handiing capacity of Ports of Vancouver
and Prince Rupert, inquiry. 377.,409-Il, 540-41
Abnormal weather conditions. 4 10
Advisory Committee t0 the Canadian Wheat Board. 409
Canada Grains Council. 409
Canadian export of grain to United States, 410
Volume of grain '"un1oads". 4 10
West Coast Iongashoremen's strike. 410
Speakers: Senators
OIson. H.A.. 377.409-Il. 54041I
Fairbairn. Joyce. 541
St. Germain, Gerry. 411
Agriculture, response of Minister to reports of Standing Senate
Conimittee, inqully. 2362
Aird, Q.C., the late Hon. John Black, tributes, 1596-97
Allmand, P.C., the Hon. Warren W., felicitations on thirtieth
2229
anniversary as Member of Parliament. st,

1084;
Alternative Fuels for Internai Combustion Engines bill S-7. Ir.
l5ref to com, Il15;,repwithout amdt, 1518-19,
2r, 115;

3r, 1542; message from Commons that bill passed with
10 amdts. 1798; m for concurrence in Commons amdts.
1802. 1832-34, 1884; amdts ref to com. 1884-85;
rep agreeing with amdîs. 1889; r.a., chap. 20. 1995, 1919
Alternative fuel vehicles, 1114, 1115
Comparison to gasoline-powered vehicles. 1 15
Costs. 1 14
Environental benefits. tl 115
"FBI" program. Il115
Financial cost benefit. 1115
Fuel neutral. 1114
Government's fleet of vehicles, 1 15
Incentives. 1 15
Refuelling infrastructure. Il115
See Joumnals of the Senate
Speakers: Senators
Camey. Pat. 1834
Kenny. Colin. Il114-15. 1832-33, 1834
Lynch-Staunton. John. 1833
Nolin. Pienre Chaude. 1 15

Amateurism in journalism in Canada, inquiry. 550. 6,43-46
Speakers: Senators
Beaudoin. Gérald-A.. 646
Corbin. Eynmard G. .550, 643-46

Hhert. Jacques~. 646

Anderson, Hon. Doris M. (introduced in the Senate Oct.3/95). 2058-60
Remembrance Day. st. 2228
United Nations. Universal Declaration of Humait Rights. st. 2435-36

Andreychuk, Hon. A. Raynell
Aboriginal peoples
Plig-ht of Lubicon Indians. intervention of World Council of
Churches. st. 1888-89
Report of Senate Committee on plight of aboriginal veterans.
request for response. qu. 2233
Scholarship for aboriginal veterans. request for response to report
of Standing Senate Committee. qu. 2540
Aboriginal Peoples Committee
Authority 10 change date of presentation of final report. 688
Authority to engage services. adopted. 1678
Authority to meet during sittings of the Senate. 779. 872. 1085,
2462
Reports
lst. Treatment of aboriginal veterans following World War 1,
World War II and the Korean War, 626. adopted, 681
See Journals of the Senate
2nd, Sabtu Dene and Métis Land Claim Seulement bill C-16.
without amdt. 743
3rd. Yukon First Nations Land Claims Settlement bill C-33.
without amdt, 784
See .lournals of the Senate
4th. Yukon First Nations Self-government bill C-34.
without amdt, 788
See Joumals of the Senate
Sth. Split Lake Cree First Nation Flooded Land bill C-36,
without amdt, 1039
6th. Treatment of aboriginal veterans. extension of final
report date. 1082
7th. Yukon Surface Rights Board bill C-55, without amdt
but with an observation. 1093-94
8th. Pictou Landing Indian Band Agreement bill C-60, without
amdt, 1355
9th, Treatment of aboriginal veterans. tabled. 1469. 1481-82.
adopted, 1655-56
Living conditions of veterans, 1482
Paternalism., 1482
Remembrance Day services. 1482
Scholarship fund. 1482
lOth. British Columbia Treaty Commission bill C-107,
without amdt, 2486
Aboriginal war veterans honoured. st. 1724-25
British Columbia Treaty Commission bill C-107. 2422-23
First Nations Summit. 2422, 2423
Treaty negotiation, 2422
criminality.
youth
Corporation,
Broadcasting
Canadian
congratulations on recent production. st. 2607-08
Chemical Weapons Convention Implementation bill C-87, 1931-32
Coastal Fisheries Protection amendment bill C-29, considered in
Committee of the Whole. 474, 475
Environment, changes to weather reporting service adversely
affecting rural and isolated areas, government position.
qu. 1843, (r) 2557-58
External relations, commitiment of France to continuing nuclear
testing, govemnment position, qu. 1763. (r) 2048-49
Gingeli, Judy, congratulations on appointment as Commissioner of
the Yukon, st, 1469
Gun control legislation. consequences for aboriginal communities.
st, 2346
Humant rights
Commitment to intervention with transgressor countries.
government position. qu. 1684. (r) 2113
Compensation to Canadians for past injustices. qu. Il 67. (r) 1342
Contlicting staternents by Foreign Affairs Minister. request for
clarification. qu. 1681-82
Furthcr incarceration of Chincse dissident. governîment p)osition.
qu. 2504

Andreychuk, Hon. A. Raynell Cointd
Human rights-Coni'd
Imposition of embargoes and sanctions against transgressor
countries, government policy, qu. 2366
Manufacture and use ot land mines. governiment policy. qu. 2319
Ukrainian-Canadian community. redress for past injustices.
st. 1108
Vigilance towards situations developing in other countries.
governiment position. qu. 2505
Human
Rights.
establishment
of
standing
commitice.
inquiry. 93. 404-06
Civic-mînded human rigahts culture. 406
Environmental issues. 406
-Human rights and cultural relativism". 406
International declarations and covenants. 405
International human ric-hts. 404. 405
Political and civil rigahts. 404
Socio-economic rights. 404
International relations. human rights. government policy.
qu. 606. (r) 834
International Year of the Family. st. 378
Leg-al and Constitutional Affairs Committee reports
8th. Pearson International Airpori Agreements hill C-22, 806, 807
l6th. Firearms bill C-68, with 14 amdts. 2328-31
Aborigînal peoples. 2328. 2329. 2330. 2331
Treaties. 2328, 2329
Macquarrie. Hon. Heath. tributes on retirement. 724
Maintenance of Railway Operations, 1995 bill C-77, considered in
Committee of the Whole, 1441, 1442
National defence
Disbanding of Canadian Aiiborne Regiment. st, 1296-97
Inquiry into the activîties of' Canadian Airborne Regimeni.
government position. qu. 1357, (r) 1987
Nordic Council's Parliamentary Conference on the Arctîc. report of
official parliamentary delegation tabled. 92
Pearson International Airport Agreements bill C-22, 770-71
Access to courts. 771
Compensation. 770
Inquiry. 770
Property rights. 770
Quehcc. distinct society motion. legal opinion sought on
interpretation of wordîng. government position.
qu. 2491
Revîewîng Canada's Foreign Policy, response of government to
Report of Special Joint Committee. 1464
Transport. measure to termînate railway strike. considered in
Committee of the Whole. 1388. 1390. 1405. 1406.
1420. 1421
United Nations
Fiftieth anniversary of founding. st, 1921
International Human Rights Day. st, 2434-35
Resolution to hait nuclear tcsting
Government objection to wording in text. request for
partîculars. qu. 2234
Withdrawal
of co-sponsorship. government position.
qu. 2208-09
Veterans altairs. aborigînal veterans. request for action on report of
Standing Senate Committee. govern ment position.
qu. 1728
West Coast Ports Operations. 1995 bill C-74. considered in
Committee ot the Whole. 1328-29
World Trade Oîganization Agreement Implementation bill C-57.
l172r
Youiniz M cn' Chri stiian A ssoc i ation. one htindred and tifti eih
ainni%,erSai'v. st, 598-99

Andreychuk, Hon. A. Raynell-Cointd
Young Offenders, Criminal Code amendînent bill C-37, 1344-47,
1861-66
Ahoriginal youth. 1346
Accountabiliîy. 1862
Adult court. 1345. 1864
Age of reason. 1344. 1345
Child poverty. 1345
Crime crisîs, 1862
Custodial sentences. I1346
Dîsclosure of information. 1345. 1347
Ethnic gangs. 1346
"~Facts" about crime. 1862-63
Informaition sharing. 1347
Jasmin report. 1862. 1863. 1864
Murder 1346
Non-custodial sentences. 1345
Rehahilitation. 1344. 1345. 1346
Violent offenses. 1345
Youth courts. 1345
Youth crime crîsîs. 1347
Youth justice system. role. 1863
Youth unemployment. 1345
Yukon First Nations Land Claims Settlement bill C-33, 785. 786-87
Citizenship. 786
Kaska Nation. 787
Yukon Surface Rights bill. 787
Yukon First Nations Self-government bill C-34. 761. 788
Citizenship. 788
Angus, Hon. W. David
Address in reply to Speech Irom the Throne. 256-59
Income Tax amendment bill C-9. 326-27. 328
Orguanîzation for Economic Cooperation and Development.
appoinîment of' Donald Johnston as Secretary-General.
length of term. govemrment position. qu. 996. (r) 1089
Schizophrenia. si, 1544-45
Transport, condition of St. Lawrence Seaway. governiment policy.
qu. 97, (r) 166
Appendices
Canada Post Corporation. lease of premises in Sydney. Nova Scotia.
intervention of Mînister of Public Works. text of' letter
2084
Clinton. William J., President of the United States, address to both
houses, 1271
Transport, Pearson International Airport. nominees to Canadian
Airport Authority, 1023
Appointees to Immigration and Refugee Board, tabled. 1305
Appropriation No. 3, 1993-94 bill C-19. I r, 267, 268; 2r, 273-74;
3r. 287: r.., chap. 5, 1994. 298
Increases and decreases. 274
Speaker: Senator
Molgat. Gildas L.. 273-74. 287
Appropriation No. 1, 1994-95 bill C-20. 1Ir,
267, 268; 2r. 274; _3r,
287;
r.a.. chap. 6. 1994. 298
Speakers: Senators
Doody. C. William. 274
Molgat. Gildas L.. 274, 287
Appropriation No. 2, 1994-95 bill C-39. Ir. 620: 2r. 633. 699. 739;
3r. 739; r.a.. chap. 33. 199-4. 773
Speakeirs: Senalors
Doody. C. Williamr. 633
Sianhui s. Richard J.. 633

INDEX
Appropriation No. 3, 1994-95 bill C-63. Ir. 1097; 2r, 1098-99,
3r. 1112: v.a.. chap. 48, 1994, 1178
Speakers: Senators
Doody. C. William. 1099
Gauthier. Jean-Robert, 1098-99. 1112
Appropriation No. 4, 1994-95 bill C-79. Ir. 1422; 2r. 1453; point of
order, 1453-58; Speaker's ruling. 1475-76; 2r. 1477.
3r. 1492; r.a.. chap. 9, 1995. 1498
Museums Act and National Museums Act, 1477
Speakers: Senators
Bolduc, Roch. 1457
De Bané. Pierre. 1453, 1455-56
Doody. C. William. 1456, 1457
Lynch-Staunton. John, 1455
MacEachen, Allan J.. 1456, 1457
Stewart, John B.. 1455, 1456. 1457-58
Tkachuk, David, 1453-55, 1456, 1458
Appropriation No. 1, 1995-96 bull C-80. Ir, 1422; 2r, 1458, 1477-78;
3r, 1493; r.a.. chap. 10. 1995. 1498
Speakers: Senators
De Bané, Pierre, 1458
Doody, C. William, 1458
Appropriation No. 2 1995-96 bill C-97. Ir. 1727; 2r, 1751-52: 3r, 1763;
r.a., chap. 16, 1995, 1794
Budgetary expenditure, 1752
Non-budgetary expenditure. 1752
Programt review. 1752
Speakers: Senators
Doody, C. William, 1752
Gauthier. Jean-Robert, 1751-52
2469-70;
Appropriation No. 3, 1995-96 bill C-116. Ir, 2462; 2v,
3r. 2497; r.a.. chap. 49, 1995, 2547
Canada Eldor Inc.. 2469
Departments opevating budgets, 2469
Western Grain Transition Payments Act. 2469
Speaker: Senator
Oison. H.A.. 2469-70
Army Cadet League of Canada
Myriam Bédard. recognition of involvernent as army cadet, st. 182
Art Bank
See Canada Council
ASEAN Inter-Parliamentary Organization
Fourteenth Geneval Assembly, report tabled, 42
Asia-Paciflc Economic Cooperation
Summit Conference held in Osaka. Japan, st. 2241
Atkins, Hon. Norman K.
Atlantic Canada Opportunities Agency. report of Professor Savoie,
tabled. 852
Foreign affairs
Celebration of fifiieth anniversary of diplornatic relations between
Canada and Cuba. st. 1335
Sales abroad of CANDU veactors. request for status report on
environmental and financial concernis. qu. 1777.
(r) 2077-78
Legal and Constitutional Affairs Committee report
lôth. Firearins bill C-68. with 14 amndts. 2334-35. 2336
Aboviginal peoples. 2334
Cost. 2335

Atkins, Hon. Norman K.-Coni 'd
Legal and Constitutional Affairs Committee report-Coni 'd
Museums. 2335
Macquarrie. Hon. Heath. tributes on retivement. 722
Marshall. Hon. Jack. tributes on retirement. 981-82
National Defence
Possibility of purchase of nucleav-powered vessels. govevnment
position. qu. 1341
Purchase of Upholder Class submarines, cost to government.
qu. 1340, (r) 1551
National Forum on Health. vequest for information, qu. 848
Tourism. effect of budget cuts. govevnment position. qu. 284-85
Transport
Necessary vepairs to Pearson International Airpovt. govevnment
position. qu, 187. 188. (r) 287
Pearson International Aivport
Importance of passage of Bill C-22 on development.
knowledge of Robert Nixon, government position.
qu, 1451
Influence of government actions on attracting future business.
qu. 1451, (r) 1536
Privatization of Canadian National. veopening of negotiations with
Canadian Pacific, governiment position. qu. 1255.
(r) 1344
Atlantic Canada
Dependence on Scotia Synfuels project. reinstatement of special
investment tax credit, govemrment position. qu, 186-87.
517, (r) 555
Touri sin, source of employment. govevniment policy. st, 510
Atlantic Canada Opportunities Agency
Atlantic Canada regional venture capital fund, equity financing
needs of small business, government position. qu, 1110
Auditor General's report. efficacy of infrastructure job statistics,
goverrent position. qu. 2404-05
Cornwallis Park Development Agency
Allegations of mismanagement
Findings of National Defence investigation. govevnment
position. qu, 2318
Response of rmnister. qu. 2177
Stoppage of funds, govemment position. qu. 2167
Civcumstances surrounding appointment of Board of Directors.
government position, qu, 2168
lnventory control and hiring procedures, request for particulars,
qu. 2211
Request for answer to order paper question on KPMG report.
qu. 2209-10
Request for investigation by Auditor General, government
position, qu, 2177
Support for investigation by Auditor General into allegations of
mismanagement. governiment position. qu. 2371
Cuts by Minister to National Defence Adjustment Fund. governiment
position, qu. 1340, (r) 1744
Future of agency
Govemnment position, qu. 238
Objectives and scope of govemrment review, 252, (r) 423
Grants to projects in New Brunswick, government position. qu. 452,
(r) 556
Location and nature of management. goverrnent policy. qu. 323
Method of awarding projects, governiment policy. qu, 286. (r) 424
Report of Professor Savoie, tabled. 852
Request for information on pvojects. qu. 1471-72. (r) 1745
Substitution of boans for subsidies
Application of similar vules in aIl provinces. government position.
qu. 1110. (r) Il 91
Government position. qu. 1087. (r) 1190
Atornic Energv of Canada Limited, ;îppointment and comipetence of
chairman. aovernment position. qu. 250-5I

Auditor General amendmnent bill C-83. Ir. 2.371: 2r, 2405-06.
2421-22; ref to com. 2422: rep withoui amdt. 2461:
3r. 2493: r.a.. chap. 43. 1995. 2546
Commissionei of Enviioninent and Sustainable Developmient.
2405, 2421
Environment. 2421
Petitions frorn public. 2406
Sustainable governmenî. 2421
Speakers: Senators
Berntson. Eric Arthur. 2421
Kenny. Colin. 2405-06. 2422
Spivak. Mira. 2421-22
Auditor Generai amendment bill C-207. Ir. 628; 2r, 662-64; ref to
com. 664; iep without amdt. 727: 3r. 727: r.a.. chap. 32.
1994. 773
Four reports: one annual. three others. 663
Speakers: Senators
Berntson, Eric Arthur. 664
Frith. Royce. 628. 662-63. 664
Jessiman. Duncan J.. 663
MacDonald. Finlay. 663
Auditor Ceneral, dispute with departments over unreported liabilities.
government policy. qu. 1728. (r) 2075

Austin, P.C., Hon. Jack
Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation . .Summit Conference held
in Osaka, Japan. st. 2241
Budget 1995. Statemeni of' Ministcr of Finance. inquiry. 1523-25
Dominion Bond Rating Service. I 523. 1524
l)own-sizing., 1523
Subsidies. 1523
Tobin tax. 1525
Transfers to provinces. 1523
Two-year targets 1525
U.S. econoniy. 1523
Christmas Grectings. st. 1158
Environment. Globe '94. environmental exposition. Vancouver
st. 236
Grey Cup. congratulations to tbe B.C. Lions on winning the
Canadian professional football championship. st, 993
Huinan rights. Canada-China relations. govern ment policy.
st. 545-46
International trade. export statistics. sî, 2538
Legal and Constitutional Affairs Committee report
2nd. Electoral Boundaries ReadJustment Suspension. 1994
billC- 18. 495
Stanley Cup. best wishes to Vancouver Canucks in National Hockey
League championship. st. 482
Trudeau. Righî Honourable Pierre Ellioti. tenth anniversary
of resignation. st. 784
World Trade Urganization Agreement Implementation bill C-57.
1058-63. 1074-75. 1164. 1170, 1175
Agriculture. 1059
Agricultural tariffs. 1060
Anti-dumping. 1060
Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC). 1062. 1063
Asia-Pacific trade. 1062
Chemicals. 1061
Communications and electronîc equipînent industries. 1061
Counitervailing. 1061
Cultural industries. 1063
Euîopean Union and Japanese impleientation bills. 1061
Financial and telecoinunications services. 1061
Free trade. 1061. 1074
G ATT. 1058. 1059. 1060,. 1062
Globail tarit Fs.1058. 1060
Gjo\em iinii pi ocurcmnîn. 10(1
11Imperi quota". I 059
IlItCleCctaLI p1prt1 . 051), 1060. 10(i1

Austin, P.C., Hon. Jack-Goot'd
World Trade Organîzation Agreement Implemnentation-Collid
International environmental standards. 1063
International rule makin., 1059
International trade relations. 1059
Multilateralism. 1061
NAFTA. 1062
Pharmaceuticals. 1061
Ratification and implementation. 1061
Subsidies. 1059. 1061
Trade disputes. 1060
Trade in services. 1060
Trade policy issues. 1061
Trade policy review mechanism (TPRM). 1059
Trade remnedy rules. 1060
Uruguay Round. 1058. 1059. 1061. 1062
World Trade Organization. 1059
Axworthy,

P.C., Hon. Lloyd, Minister of Human Resources
Development and Minister of Western Economnie
Diversification
West Coast Ports Operations. 1994 bill C-10. considered in
Committee of the Whole. 67. 68-70. 71. 72. 73.74

Bacon, Hon. Lise (iniroduced in the Senate Oct.4/941. 838
Budget 1995, statement of Minister of Finance. înquiry 1348-50
Debt. 1348
Debt ratio. 1350
Deficit. 1348
Federal government cutbacks. I1349
Healîh care systems. 1349
Old age pensions. 1349
Program spending. 1350
Quebec. 1349
Social programs. 1349
Social transiers. 1349
Subsidies. 1348. 1349
Transfers to provinces. I1349
Transportation adjustment program. 1349
Constitutional Amendments bill C- 110. Special Senate Committee
report. 2575-77
Crimînal Code (sentencin") amendment bill C-41, 1825-28
Conditional sentence. 1827
Fines. 1827
Hate-motivated crime. 1826
Principles of sentencîng. 1825
Purpose of sentencing, 1825. 1826
Reparation, 1827
Restitution, 1827
Sexual orientation. 1826
Violence against women. 1825
Jalbert, the late René, tributes. 2553-54
Legal and Constitutional Affairs Commîtice report
l6th. Firearms bill C-68. with 14 amdts. 2320-22
Charter of Righîs and Freedoms. 2321
Enforcement. 2321
Ownershîp. 2321
Regîisîration. 2320. 2321
National Day of Remembrance
Anniversary of tragedy at l'EcolePolytechnique. st. 1056
Sixib annîversary of tragedy ai l'Ecole Polytechnique. si, 2413
National Uniiy. aftermath of Quebec referendumn. explanation of
comments in press. st, -2173
Quebec. mi to recognîze as distinct society. 2527-28
Balfouur, Hon. R.james
Canadi an Whcat Board. pi eseniation et peintiens. 11t82
Cor rectioens aind Cond itina I Rc ca se. Cri minai Code. Ciiini nal
Receords. Prison s anîd
. Tcrmteii ot
aîn si
()ttenders amiendinient bilt C-45. 21 19-2(0

INDEX
Balfour, Hon. R. James-Cont 'd
Justice
Authority for statement on political non-involvement in police
investigations. govemnment position. qu. 2465. 2466
Sale of Airbus aircraft to Air Canada. alleged conspiracy to
defraud federal government
Knowledge of government ministers. request for particulars.
qu. 2466
Stage of treaty with Switzerland at time of request. govemment
position, qu, 2488. 2489, (r) 2610
National defence. peacekeeping in Bosnia, ability of troops to
withdraw from Visoko if recalled, govemment position.
qu. 1839
Pearson International Airport Agreements bill C-22, 729-32
Compensation, 730
tnquiry. 731
Negotiations leading to agreement, 729
Nixon Report. 729, 730

Banking, Trade and Commerce, Standing Senate Coinmittee
Authority to engage services. 1632-33. 1658
Authority to examine regulations proposed to the Export
Development Act, 8, 37
Authority to extend date of presentation of final report. 132.
176-77
Authority to meet during sittings of the Senate, 688. 728. 790. 838.
2316.,2360
Authority to permit electronic coverage of proceedings. 211
Authority to study state of Canadian financial system, 132, 177
Authority to extend date of presentation of final report. 994.
adopted, 1022
Authority to extend date of final report. 2316; withdrawn. 2360
Authority to extend date of presentation of final report, 2362,
adopted, 2380
Authority to table interim report, 1890, adopted, 1975
Membership
See Journals of the Senate
Reports
I st, expenses incurred during 3rd Session, 34th Parliament.
tabled, 183
See Journals of the Senate
2nd, Income Tax Conventions bill S-2. without amdt. 183
3rd. regulations proposed to the Export Development Act,
tabled, 183, adopted. 243-44
See Journals of the Senate
4th. Customs Tariff amendment bill C-S. 280
Speaker: Senator
Kirby, Michael, 243-44
See Journials of the Senate
5th. Income Tax amendment bill C-9, without amdt. 332. 336
6th, committee's work plan. tabled, 395-96
7th, Excise Tax amendment bill C-13. 396
8th. Income Tax Amendments Revision bill C-15, 397
9th, Department of National Revenue aniendment bill C-2, 435
lOth. Income Tax. Income Tax Application Rules. Canada
Pension Plan, Canada Business Corporations. Excise
Tax. Unemployment Insurance amendment bill C-27,
627
llth. Canada Business Corporations amendment bill C-12,
without amdt. 686
I 2th. Excise, Customs, Tobacco Sales to Young Persons
amendment bill C-il1, without amdt. 897
I 3th. study of state of Canadian financial system. tabled. 950-5SI.
955-56. 1003-10. 1046-50. 1348, 1543
Co-insurance. 1004. 1007T 1046. 1047. 1048. 1049
Coîlecting premiums. 1008
CompCorp. 1005
Consumer protection and consumer responsibility. 10103. 1046
Deductible system. 1004
Deposit insurance. 1003. 1004. 1008. 1046

Banking, Trade and Commerce-Coni 'd
Reports-Conî 'd
Government support. 1008
Life and health insurance indu stry. 10014, 1005. 1006
"Life and Health Insurance Policyholder Protection Fund".
1005. 1007
Loans to Third World countries. 1048
Market discipline. 1047
Policyholder protection fund. 1006
Regulatory system, 100.3. 1006. 1008. 1048, 1049. 10-50
Rehabilitation scheme. 1006. 1008
Risk-based schemes, 1047
Stacking. 1009. 1046
Subsidiary trust. 1008
Superintendent of Financial Institutions, 1006. 1048, 1049
Speakers: Senators
Berntson. Eric Arthur, 1348
Di Nino. Consigfio. 956. 1008. 1009
Kirby, Michael, 950. 955-56. 1003-06, 1008-10
Sylvain. John. 1007-08
I 4th. Department of Industry bill C-46, without amdt. 1181
I Sth, Income Tax amendment bill C-59. without amdt. 1339
I6th. Budget. study on fînancial system in Canada. 1450.
adopted. 1495
See Journals of the Senate
17th, Canada-United States Tax Convention Act. 1984 bill S-9,
without amdt. 1547
I 8th, Budget. study of state of Canadian financial system. 1774:.
adopted. 1973
See Journals of the Senate
I 9th, Income tax amendment bill C-70, without amdt. 1889
2Oth. Business Development Bank of Canada bill C-91I. without
amdt. 1980
See Journal s of the Senate
2Ist, 1992 Financial Institutions Legislation. confirmation of
tabling of interim report and m for consideration, 2067
22nd, Excise Tax. Excise amendment bill C-90, without amdt.
2207
23rd, Income Tax Conventions Implementation. 1995 bill C- 10_5.
without amdt. 2207
24th, Cultural Property Export and Import, Income Tax. Tax
Court of Canada amendment bill C-93. without amdt.
2246
25th. Customs, Customs Tariff bill C- 102, without amdt, 2370
26th. Excise Tax. Income Tax amendment bill C-103, with one
amdt. 2398. 2446-49; m in amdt. adopted. on div.
2449-50: rep (con't). 2450-52. 2480-83; rep neg on div.
2497-98
27th, SmalI Business Loans amendment bill C-99, without amdt.
2538
Barnhart, Esq., Gordon
Appointment as honorary officer of the Senate. felicitations, 178-81
Beaudoin, Hon. Gérald-A.
Address in reply to Speech front the Throne. 49, 55-56
Amateurism in journalism in Canada. inquiry. 646
Beaulieu, Hon. Mario, tributes on occasion of resignation. 742
Bouchard. Hon. Lucien, best wishes for a speedy recovery. st. 1056
Canada-France Inter-Parliamentary Association
Meeting held in Paris. report of Canadian Delegation tabled. 2110
Twenty-fifth Annual Meeting, report of Canadian Delegation
tabled. 880
Canada Student Financial Assistance bill C-28. 707
Provincial opting-out clause. 707
Canadian Unity. Special Senate Comnmittee. mi to establish. 2556-57
Chaput-Rolland. Hon. Solange. tributes on retirement. 414
Coastal Fisheries Protection ainendirnent bill C-29. considered in
Comimitte of the Whole. 463
Constitutional Amcendmcints bill C- 110. Special Senate Cormittee
report. 25701-71I

Beaudoin, Hon. Géraid-A.-Coin 'd
Criminal Code amendment (dang-erous intoxication) bill S-6. 987
Criminal Code amendment (self-induced intoxication) bill C-72,
1945
David, Hon. Paul, tributes on retirement from the Senate. 1160
Electoral Boundaries Readjustment. 1995 bill C-69. point of order.
1897, 1900; mi instructing com t0 table final report.
2235-36
Euthanasia and Assisted Suicide. Special Joint Committee reports
2nd. Power to hold occasional meetincs in camera. 744
Final. entitled "Of Life and Death". 1753-54
Firearms bill. letter inviting submissions to travelling panels of
senators. st. 2206
House of Commons. decision to cease publication of committee
proceedings. impact on bilingualism. st. 1527
Humphrey. the late John Peter. tribute. 1448
LeBlanc. PC.. Hon. Romeo, tributes on appointment as Governor
General of Canada. 967-68
Legal and Constitutional Affairs
Schedule of work of the committee
Position of chairman. 2364, 2365
Response of chairman. 2370
Legal and Constitutional Affairs Committee
Authority to engage services. 184-85, 211
Authority to meet during sittings of the Senate. 353, 1740. 1796,
1958. 2006. 2007
Reports
1st. expenses incurred during 3rd Session. 34th Parliament.
tabled. 92
2nd. Electoral Boundaries Read%îustment Suspension 1994
bill C- 18. 420-21,.439-40
Commissions. 440
Decennial census. 439
Proportional representation. 439
Representation by population. 4401
Two-year suspension. 439
3rd. Criminal Code. Coastal Fisheries Protection amendmrent
bill C-8, without amdt. 451
See Journals of the Senate
4th. interimi. General Security Insurance Company of Canada
bill S-3.482. 517
Sth. General Security Insurance Company of Canada bill S-3.
483
6th. Miscellaneous Statute Law Amendments. tabled. 547
7th. Canadian Association of Lutheran Congregations
incorporation bill S-5, 548. adopted. 588
See Journals of the Senate
8th. Pearson International Airport Agreements bill C-22.
with six amdts. 788. 789. 801-02
Sec Journals of the Senate
9th. Crîmînal Law Amendment. 1994 bill C-42, with six amdts.
1096-97
See Jouinals of the Senate
lOth. Electoral Boundaries Readjustment. 1995 bill C-69. with
seven amdts. 1725-26
I1 th, Young Offenders, Criminal Code amendment bill C-37.
without amdt but with observations. 1798-800
l2th. Criminal Code amendment (sentencing) bill C-41,
without amdt. 1923
1I3th. Crîminal Code amendment (self induced intoxication)
bill C-72, without amdt. 1979
I4th. Electoral Boundaries ReadJustment. 1995 bill C-69. mn
and message from Comînons. 1979-80. 2020. 2022-23
lSîh. Crîmînal Code. Young Offenders amendmcnt (forensic
DNA anal',sis). without amidt but with an observation.
19801
I(Sth. Firearnms bill C-68 with 14 amndts. 2243-46. 2252-53
Abor i.!înal peoples. 2252
Anitiquie wcapons. 2253
Dral t r'esu hoIienIS. tabl iii. 15 3
Govcînor in Couincil. 225ý3

Beaudoin, Hon. Gérald.A.-Coi'd
Leg-al and Constitutional Affairs Comnmitiee Co,îr'd
Museums. 2253
-~Opting in"~ foirmula. 2252
Prison terms. 2253
Registration, 2253
l7th. Evang-elical Missionary Church <Canada West District)
bill S-12. with I amdt. 2436: adopted. 2458
l8th. Corrections and Conditional Release. Criminal Code.
Criminal
Records.
Prisons and Retormatories
amendment bill C-45. without amdt but with
one observation. 2436-37
Lynch-Staunton. Hon. John. élection by secret ballot as Leader of
the Opposition in the Senate. st. 40
Maintenance of Railway Operations. 1995 bill C-77. considered in
Commîttee ot the Whole. 1441
Miscellaneous Statute Law Amendment. 1994 bill C-40. 705
National Unity. result of Quebec Referendum. st. 2148
Neiman. Hon. Joan, tribute on retirement. 2039-40
Pearson International Airpori Agreements bill C-22, 830
Royal Recommendation. 830
Pepîn. PC.. the late Hon. Jean-Lue. tribute. 2065
Prince Edward Island. fixed lînk. m to amend Constitution of
Canada, 206-07
Bilateral amending formula. 206. 207
Quebec, m for recognition as distinct socîety. 2455-56. 2528-29
Federal provincial conference. 2455-56
Québec veto. 2529
Sahtu Dene and Métis Land Claim Settlement bill C-16. 676
Boards to regulate land and water use. 676
Entrenchment in Constitution. 676
Envîronmental Impact Review Board. 676
Hunting and fishing rights. 676
Ownership of land, 676
Resource royalties. 676
Surface Rights Board. 676
Senate. impact of decision of House of Commons to cease
publication of committee proceeding-s, inquiry. 1644-45.
1646, 1647
Canadian Char-ter of Rights and Freedoms. 1644. 1645
Committees as part of parliamentary system. 1645. 1646
Constitution. 1644. 1645
Language rights, 1644
OfficiaI Lang-uages Act. 1644. 1645. 1647
Participation in joint committees. 1645
Supreme Court of Canada. 1644. 1645
Transport. measure to termînate railway strike. considered in
Committee of the Whole. 1426
West Coast Ports Operations. 1995 bill C-74, consîdered in
Commitîc of the Whole. 1332
Beaulieu, Hon. Mario (resigned Jonc 22/94)
National finance. the deficit, budgetary and political risks. effeci on
loreign investment. g-Overnment position. qu. 322., 323
Tributes on occasion of resignation. 740-42
Bélisle, Esq., Paul C.
Clerk of the Senate appointment. felicitations, 178-81
Berger, His Excellency David
Felicitations on his appointment as Ambassador to Israel. st. 1977
Scrutîny on views prior to bis appointment as Ambassador- to lsrael
and Cyprus. governiment position. qu. 2010-11. (r) 2115
Berntson, Hon. Eric Arthur, Deputv Leader of the Opposition
Aboî iginal Peophes Commiittee
Authoriiy to miii during sitting of the Senate. 872-73
Report
6th. Treaiineni ofh orîsinal pepe.extension oh deadline. Il(04
Aboiii al Peophes. nai e sel lgos errn ent. înL o i1 . 1018h
Address in rep)y to Speech fromi fic Throne. 243. 259

INDEX
Berntson, Hon. Eric Arthur-Cont 'd
Berntson, Hon. Eric Arthur-Cont 'd
Internai Economy. Budgets and Administration Committee reports
Agriculture and Forestry Committee report
23rd. Energy. the Environment and Natural Resources Committee
9th. special study of farm safety. 2372
Agriculture, Canadian Wheat Board, granting of monopoly powers
budget. 1583
for the export marketing of aIl grains and oilseeds.
27th to 39th reports. adopted. 1885
presentation of petition, 1204-05
Senate budget 1994-95, 37
Alternative Fuels bill S-7. amdts ref to, comn, 1884-85
Justice. sale of Airbus aircraft to Air Canada, alleged conspiracy to
Answers to Order Paper Questions tabied. request for answers. 1601
defraud federal government. numbers of RCMP
Appointees to Immigration and Refugee Board. tabled. 1305
investigations publicized. request for particulars.
Auditor General amendment bill C-83, 2421
qu. 2250. (r) 2420-21
Environment. 2421
Learning Disabilities Association, st. 1485
Sustainable government. 2421
Legal and Constitutional Affairs Committee
Auditor General amendment bill C-207. 664
Motion instructing coin to table final rep re C-69. point of order.
Banking,, Trade and Commerce Committee reports
2427.,2428
13th. study of state of Canadian financial system. 1348
Notice of motion to instruct com to table final rep. point of order.
in
26th, Excise Tax, Income Tax amendment bill C-103, mn amdt,
Speaker's ruling. 2389, 2393, 2394
2449
Reports
Budget 1995. statement of Minister of Finance, inquiry. 1463
8th. Pearson International Airport Agreements bill C-22. 813,
Budget Implementation. 1994 amendmnent bill C-17, 632
816
Budget Implementation. 1995 bill C-76, 1807
I6th. Firearms bill C-68, with 14 amdts. 2292. 2299. 2334
Budget, statement of Minister of Finance. inquiry. 244, 607
Lobbyists Registration bill, ref to Standing Senate Committee on
Business Development Bank of Canada bill C-91, 1944
National Finance. adopted. 1677
Business of the Senate, 483-84. 556, 651, 837, 1010, 1075, 1368,
Members of Parliament Retiring Allowances amendment bill C-85.
1369, 1381, 1421. 1428. 1952. 1963
1940
Adjournment. 103, 584-85, 680, 681, 687, 764, 765, 911. 1775,
2229
Compensation, 1940
Order Paper questions, request for answers. qu. 1472-73
Double dipping. 1940
Canada-United States Tax Convention, 1984 amendiment bill S-9,
Merchant Navy Veterans and Civilian War-related Benefits bill S-4,
1460
606
Canadian Film Development Corporation ameodment bill C-3 1,662
Ministry of Canadian Heritage, funding levels for national sports
Canadian heritage, responsibilities in relation to Canadian veterans
organization, tabled. 1170
and war memorials. tabled, 1206
National Crime Prevention Council. details of operation and
Certified General Accountants' Association bill S-8. 1293
composition. tabled, 1229
Composition of National Defence Minister's Advisory Group on
National defence
Defence Infrastructure, tabled. 1555
Annual maintenance costs for Sea King helicopter fleet.
Constitutional Amendments bill C-110, Special Senate Committee.
tabled. 1112
2548
to
mn establish,
Details concerning status of airbus. tabled. 1637
988
Crimiinal Code amendment (dangerous intoxication) bill S-6,
Membership of Honours Policy Committee. tabled, 1652
Department of Industry bill C-46, 1114
National election. Red Book commitmnent to appoint ethics
Annual report. 1 14
commissioner, govemrment position. 283
Department of Natural Resources bill C-48, 998- 1001
Pearson International Airport Agreements bill C-22. 679
Energy. the Environment and Natural Resources Committee reports
Pictou Landing Indian Band Agreement bill C-60, 1256
Authority to extend date of final rep re National Protected Areas
Privileges, Standing Rules and Orders Committee report
Strategy. adopted. 2487
2nd, deletion of Rule 26 from Rules of the Senate. 1010
Reports
Railway Safety amendment bill C-21. 439
7th. National Protected Areas Strategy. adopted. 1050
to
8tb. National Protected Areas Strategy. authority tu extend date
Reviewing Canada's Foreign Poîicy, mn print Volume I of Special
of final report, adopted. 10-50
Joint Committee report. 1246, 1247
Euthanasia and assisted suicide, enforcement of current Criminal
Royal Canadian Mint amendment bill C-82, 1918
Code provisions, presentation of petition. 1205
Expenses for businesses, 1918
Facing the Challenge of Change: A Study of the Atlantic Economy,
Vending machines. 1918
details of costs and authors of study, tabled, 1206
Second World War, information from Soviet archives on Canadian
Firearms bill C-68, 1761
armed forces personnel missing in action at Torgau,
First Nations Govemnment bill S-10, 1601, 1619, 1670
tabled, 1112
Fisheries Committee
Senate
Autbority to examine annual report of Department of Fisheries
Absence of approval for various projects, inquiry, 1127, 1350
and Oceans. 411
Amendments to Bill C-22, refusaI by Minister to appear before
Fisheries. species and configuration of fish exported to Japan,
Senate Committee. qu. 1299
tabled, 1206
Lauriault. Mr. Douglas, resignation as page, best wishes. 837
Foreign Affairs Committee. authority to meet during sittings of the
Tribute to departing page. 392
Senate. 1085, 1854
Social Affairs. Science and Technology Committee report
Gatineau. donations requested for victims of recent fire. st. 1499
in
Il th, Employment equity bill C-64, mn amdt. ref back to com.
Government funding of Canadian Jewish Congress archives,
2385-86
tabled. 1475
Solicitor General. cumulative total of firearms recovered by RCMP.
Gun control legislation. presentation of petition. 2316-17
tabled. 1206
Infrastructure program. request of municipalities of Canada. 394

Berntson, Hon. Eric Arthur-Coo; 'd
Transport
Failure of minister to properly brief Prime Minister on reports
respecting Pearson Airport Agreements, aovernment
position. qu. 1488
Federal-Provincial Strategic Highway Improvement Program.
Nova Scotia. diversion of funds. request for
examînation by Auditor General of Canada. order
withdrawn. 1736
Measure to terminate railway strike. m to debate ret to Committee
of the Whole. 1373
Pearson Airport Agreements. extent of knowledge of Mr. Nixon ai
time of review. government position. qu. 1488
Pearson International Airport. transfer of administration t0 local
airport authority. nature of legal impediment, qu. 1501
Report of the Ad Hoc Parliamentary Committee on Lightstations,
inquiry. 2345
Unemployment Insurance amendment bill C-216. 1293
Unveiling of' Canadian War Memorial at Green Park. London,
England. guest Iist. tabled. 1070
Veterans affairs. Canadian Vietnam Veterans' Memorial
lnquiry. 195
Motion to provide site, point of order. 433
Veterans affairs. Royal Canadian Legion. inquiry. 1050
Veterans Independence Program. eligibility of veterans residing
abroad. tabled. 1206
West Coast Ports Opérations. 1995 bill C-74. 1318-19
Collective bargaining. 1318
Trade. 1319
World War Il. European theatre of opérations, list of prisoners of
war returned or repatriated to Canada. tabled. I1229
Yukon First Nations Self-government bill C-34. 758-59
B.C. Treaty Commission. 759
Gwich'in Comprehensive Land Claim Agreement, 759
Indian Act amended. 759
Native Agenda. 759
Royal Commission on Aboriginal Peoples. 759
Saskatchewan Indian Nations. 759
Yukon Surface Rights Board bill C-55. 1043-44
Kaska nation land dlaim. 1043, 1044
Between the Lines, community Iiteracy resource program, st. 1759
Buis, Commons, (numericaliy)
C-2. Department of National Revenue amendment
C-3. Federal -Provincial Fiscal Arrangements and Federal
Post-Secondary Education and Health Contributions
amendment
C-4. Crown Liability and Proceedings amendment
C-5. Customs Tariff amendment
C-6. Canada Oul and Gas Opération, Canada Petroleum Resources.
National Energy Board amendmenî
C-7. Controlled Drugs and Substances
C-8, Criminal Code. Coastal Fisheries Protection amendment
C-9, Income Tax amendment
C-I10. West Coast Ports Opérations, 1994
C- 11. Excise. Customs, Tobacco Sales to Young Persons amrendment
C- 12. Canada Business Corporations amendment
C- 13. Excise Tax amendmnent
C- 14, Borrowing Authoriîy Act. 1994-95
C- 15, Income Tax Amendments Revision
C- 16, Sahtu Dene and Metis Land Claim Settlement*
C- 17, Budget Implementation. 1994
C- 18, Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Suspension. 1994
C- 19. Appropriation Act No. 3. 1993-94
C-20. Appropriation Acf No. 1. 1994-95
C-21. Railway Safety amendmient
C-22. Pearson International Afiiport Agrcenients
C-23. Nigratory Itirds Conv ention, 19i94
C-24. Canada Wi IdlIifc aniendiiient

Buis, Communs, (numerically)-Cotit'd
C-25. Canada Petroleum Resources amendment
C-26. National Lîbrary amendment
C-27, Income Tax. Incomie Tax Application Rules. Canada Pension
Plan. Canada Business Corporation. Excise Tax.
Unemploymenî Insurance amendment
C-28. Canada Student Fînancial Assistance
C-29, Coastal Fisheries Protection amendment
C-30, Department of Labour amendment
C-31. Canadian Film Development Corporation aînendmenî
C-32, Excise Tax. Excise. Income Tax amendment
C-33. Yukon First Nations Land Claims Seutlement
C-34, Yukon First Nations Self-Government
C-35, Department of Citizenship and Immigration
C-36. Split Lake Cree First Nation Flooded Land Act
C-37, Young Offenders and Crîminal Code amendmenî
C-38. Marine Transportation Securîîy Act
C-39, Appropriation No. 2. 1994-95
C-40, Miscellaneous Statute Law Amendment. 1994
C-41. Criminal Code amendment (sentencing)
C-42. Criminal Code amendment (miscellaneous matters)
C-43, Lobbyisîs Registration amendment
C-44. Immigration. Citizenshîp amendment
C-45, Corrctjins and Coîiditioîial Relcase. Crîmînal Code. Criminal
Records. Prisons and Reformatories. Transfer of
Offenders amendmenî
C-46. Department of lndusîry Act
C-47, Depariment of External Affairs amendment
C-4&. Department of Natural Resources Act
C-49. Departmenî of Agriculture amendment
C-50. Canadian Wbeat Board amendmenî
C-SI., Canada Grain anîendmrenî
C-53. Department of Canadian Herîtage Act
C-54, Old Age Securiîy. Canada Pension Plan. Children's Special
Allowances. Unemployinent Insurance amendmenî
C-55. Yukon Surface Rights Board Act
C-56, Canadian Environm-ental Assessment amendment
C-57, World Tiade OrganiLation Agreement Implementation Act
C-59, Income Tax amendment
C-60. Picîou Landing Indian Band Agreement Act
C-61. Agriculture and Agri-Food Administrative Monetary Penalties
C-63, Appropniation No. 3. 1994-95
C-64, Employment equity
C-65. Govemment Organization Act (Federal Agencies)
C-67. Veterans Review and Appeal Board Act
C-68. Firearms Act
C-69, Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Act, 1995
C-70. Income Tax. Income Tax Application Rules amendmenî
C-71. Explosives amendment
C-72, Criminal Code amendment (selt-induced intoxication)
C-73, Bonrowing Autborîty Act. 1995-96
C-74. West Coast Ports Operations Act. 1995
C-75, Farm Improvemeni and Marketing Cooperatîves Loans
amendment
C-76. Budget Implementation Act. 1995
C-77, Maintenance of Railway Operations Act, 1995
C-79, Appropriation Act No. 4, 1994-95
C-80. Appropriation Act No. 1. 1995-96
C-81. Buffalo and Fort Erie Public Bridge Company Act
C-82. Royal Canadian Mînt amendment
C-83, Auditor- General amendinent
C-85. Members of Parliament Reîiring Allowances amendmnent
C-86. Canadian I)airy Commission amendment
C-87. Chemnical Weapons Convention Implemeniation Act
C-89. CN Commercial iaiion Act
C0. Excise Taix. Excise amnendircnt
C-91I. imaI I Business Ban k ofCanada Act
C-92. Canad ian Vsheai leai d amiend nient
C-93. Cul tUi aI Pi opei ts Fs pori and I ni poît. Income Tas. Ta \ Court
of Canada aiendiiueni

INDEX
Bis, Commons, (numerically)-Cont 'di
C-97, Appropriation Act No. 2, 1995-96
C-102, Customs, Customs Tariff amendment
C- 103, Excise Tax, Income Tax amendment
C-I 04, Criminal Code. Young Offenders amendment (forensic DNA
analysis)
C-105. Income Tax Conventions Implementation 1995
C-I107. British Columbia Treaty Commission Act
C- 108, National Housing amendmnent
C- 110, Constitutional amendments
C-i 16, Appropriation Act No. 3, 1995-96
C-207, Auditor General (reports) amendment
C-212, National Sports of Canada Act
C-216, Unemployment Insurance amendment (jury service)
Bis, Senate, (numerically)

S-1, Railways (pro fonna)
S-2, Income Tax Conventions
S-3, General Security Insurance Company of Canada
S-4, Merchant navy veteran and civilian war-related benefits
S-5, Canadian Association of Lutheran Congregations
S-6, Criminal Code amendment (dangerous intoxication)
S-7, Alternative fuels for internai combustion enginies
S-8, Certified General Accountants' Association of Canada
S-9, Canada-United States Tax Convention Act, 1984 amendment
S- 1, First Nations Government Act
S-Il1. Karla Homoika
S-12, Evangelical Missionary Church
S-13, Criminal Code amendment (abuse of process)
S-14, Tobacco Product Restrictions Act
S-15, Criminal Code amendment (plea bargaining)
Bils, Commons

Agriculture and Agri-Food Administrative Monetary Penalties
bil C61. Ir, 2176; 2r, 2212-14, e ocm 24 e
without amdt, 2362; 3r, 2372; n.a., chap.40. 1995. 2411
Appropriation No. 3. 1993-94 bill C-19. jr, 267, 268; 2r, 273-74;
3r, 287-. r.a., chap. 5, 1994, 298

Appropriation No. 1, 1994-95 bill C-20. Ir, 267, 268& 2r, 274;
3r, 287. rna., chap. 6. 1994, 298
Appropriation No. 2, 1994-95 bill C-39. Ir. 620; 2r, 633, 699, 739;
3r, 739- r.a., chap. 33, 1994, 773
Appropriation No. 3, 1994-95 bill C-63. Ir, 1097; 2r, 1098-99-,
3r, 1112 r.a., chap. 48, 1994, 1178
Appropriation No. 4, 1994-95 bill C-79. Ir. 1422; 2r. 1453: point of
order. 1453-58; Speaker's ruling. 1475-76; 2r, 1477;
3r. 1492; r.a.. chap. 9, 1995, 1498
Appropriation No. 1, 1995-96 bill C-80. Ir, 1422; 2r, 1458, 1477-78;
3r, 1493; r.a.. chap. 10, 1995. 1498
Appropriation No. 2 1995-96 bill C-97. Ir, 1727; 2r, 1751-52;
3r, 1763: r.a., chap. 16, 1995, 1794
Appropriation No. 3, 1995-96 bill C- 116. Ir, 2462; 2r, 2469-70;
3r, 2497; r.a., chap. 49, 1995. 2547

Auditor General amendment bill C-207. Ir, 628-, 2r, 662-64:
ref to com, 664; rep without amdt, 727; 3r, 727;
r.a., chap. 32, 1994, 773
Auditor General amendment bill C-83. Ir, 2371; 2r, 2405-06,
2421-22; ref to com, 2422; rep without amdt. 2461;
3r, 2493: r.a.. chap. 43, 1995, 2546
Borrowing Authority, 1994-95 bill C-14. Ir, 282; 2r, 288-93; ref to
com of the Whole, 293: considered in Committee of the
Whole. Hon. EarI A. Hastings in the Chair. Mr. David
Walker. Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister of
Finance taking- part in the debate. 293-97; rep without
amdt. 297; 3r, 297: r.a.. chap. 4. 1994, 298
Borrowing Authority. 1995-96 bill C-73. lu. 1469; 2r. 1478-8 1: ref
to com. 1481: rep without amndt. 1487: 3r, 1487:
r.a.. chap. 8. 1995. 1498
British Columbia Treaty Commission bill C-107. Ir. 2371;
2r, 2406-07. 2422-23: rel' to coin, 2423; rep without
amdt. 2486: 3r. 2508: r.a.. chap. 45, 1995. 2546

Buis, Cominons-Conr 'd
Budget Implementation. 1994 amendment bill C-17. Ir, 512;
2r, 530-37; 556-58; ref to com. 558; rep without amdt.
618; 3r, on div. 631-32; r.a., chap. 18. 1994, 664

Budget Implementation. 1995 bill C-76. Ir, 1713: 2r. 1729-30,
1747-51, 1763-70; ref to com. 1770; rep without amdt.
1773: supplementary rep. 1796: 3r, 1806-11, 1852-53,
1854-56, r.a.. chap. 17. 1995, 1919
Buffalo and Fort Erie Public Bridge Company amendment bill C-8 1.
Ir, 1689; 2r, 1719; ref to com, 1719: rep without amdt,
1774; 3r, 1774-75; rna., chap. 14. 1995, 1794
Business Development Bank of Canada bill C-91. Ir, 1917:
2r, 1942-44; ref to com. 1944: rep without amdt. 1980;
3r, 1995-96: ra., chap. 28. 1995, 2056
Canada Business Corporations amendment bill C-12. Ir, 640;
2r, 673-75; ref to com, 675; rep without amdt. 686;
3r, 728; r.a.. chap. 24, 1994, 773
Canada Grain amendment bill C-51. Ir, 1131; 2r, 1136-38: ref to
com. 1138;, rep without amdt, 1162: 3r, 1163;

r.a., chap. 45, 1994, 1177
Canada Oul and Gas Operations, Canada Petroleum Resources,
National Energy Board amendment bill C-6. Ir, 353;
2r, 380-8 1; ref to com, 38 1; rep without amdt. 420;
3r, 437-38; r.a.. chap. 10. 1994, 478
Canada Petroleum Resources amendment bill C-25. Ir. 846:,
2r, 846-47; ref com. 848; rep without amdt. 87 1,
3r, 871; r.a., chap. 36, 1994. 989
Canada Student Financial Assistance bill C-28. Ir, 687; 2r, 705-14;
ref to com, 715; rep without amdt, 743; 3r, 743;
n.a., chap. 28, 1994. 773
Canada Wildlife amendment bill C-24. Ir, 628: 2r, 702-04: ref to
com. 704; rep without amdt. 726: 3r, 727; rna., chap. 23,
1994.,773

Canadian Dairy Commission amendment bill C-86. Ir. 1824;
Canadian

2r, 1882-83: ref to coin, 1883; tep without amdt. 1923:
3r, 1923; r.a., chap. 23. 1995, 2056
Environmental Assessment amendment bill C-56.
Ir, 1131; 2r, 1138-41; ref to com, 1141, rep without
amdt, 1163; 3r, 1163; r.a., chap. 46, 1994. 1177

Canadian Film Development Corporation amendment bill C-31.
Ir, 649-50; 2r, 658-62: ref to com. 662; rep without
amdt. 686: 3r, 729: r.a., chap. 25. 1994, 773
CN Commercialization bill C-89. Ir, 1838: 2r, 1914-16: ref to com.
1916: rep without amdt, 1922; 3r, 1929-31:
r.a., chap. 24, 1995. 2056
Canadian Wheat Board amendment bill C-50. Ir. 912; 2r, 935-36:
ref to com, 936; rep without amdt. 983; 3r, 987;
r.a., chap. 39, 1994, 989
Canadian Wheat Board amendment bill C-92. Ir, 1924; 2r, 1945-47;
ref to com, 1947;, rep without amdt. 1978; 3r, 2019:
rna., chap. 31. 1995, 2057
Chemical Weapons Convention Implementation bill C-87. Ir, 1801;
2r, 1873-78; ref to com, 1878; rep without amdt. 1923;
3r, 1931-32: r.a.. chap. 25. 1995, 2056

Coastal Fisheries Protection amendment bill C-29. Ir, 451:
2r, 457-62; ref to committee of the Whole, 462;

considered

in Committee

of the Whole. Hon.

Earl A. Hastings in the Chair. Hon. André Ouellet.

Minister of Foreign Affairs and Hon. Brian Tobin,
Minister of Fisheries and Oceans taking part in the
debate, 462-75: rep without amdt. 476; 3r, 476:
r.a..chap. 14, 1994.,478
Constitutional amendments bill C-I110. Ir. 2501: 2r, 2515-27.
2540-43. 2548: ref to com. 2548: rep. 2559-82: vote
deferred. 2610-21. ne- on div. 2633-34: 3r. 2634:
r.a.. chap.l1. 1996. 2638
Controlled Drugs and Substances bill C-7. Ir. 2153: 2r, 2184.
22 18ý19; retto coin. 2219

Bis, Commons-Cent'd
Corrections and Conditional Release. Crirninal Code. Criminal
Records. Prisons and Reformatories. Transfer of
Offenders arnendment bill C-45. Ir. 2068; 2r, 2100-03,
21:
21192 ref to cern. 212 1; rep without amdt but witb
one observation. 2436-37; 3r,. 2467; r.a.. chap. 42. 1995.
2546
Criminal Code arndment bill C-72. Ir,. 1924; 2r, 1944-45;
reftocorn. 1945; rep without arndct. 1979; 3r, 2019;
r.a.. chap. 32, 1995. 2057
Criminal Code arndment (sentencing) bill C-41. Ir, 1796;
2r. 1825-28. 1870-73; ref te corn, 1873; rep without
amdt. 1923; 3r, 1923; r.a.. chap. 22. 1995, 2056
Crirninal Code. Coastal Fisheries Protection arndment bill C-8.
Ir, 332; 2r. 360-65; ref te corn, 365; rep without arndt.
45 1; 3r, 45 1; v.a.. chap. 12. 1994. 478
Crimînal Code. Young Offenders arndment bill C-104. Ir, 1924;
2r. 1949-51 ; ref te corn, 195 1; rep without arndt but
witb an observation. 1980; 3r, 1995; r.a.. chap. 27,
1995.,2056
Crimînal Law Amendrnenb. 1994 bill C-42. Ir. 855-56; 2r, 883-87;
ref te corn, 887; rep wibb six amdts. 1096; rep adopted.
1096-97;. 3r. 1097; concurrence by Commons in Senate
arndts. 1131;vr.a. chap. 44, 1994. 1177
Crown Liability and Proceedings amendment bill C-4. Ir. 353;
2r, 381-82. 402-03: ref te corn, 403; bill withdrawn
fvorn corn aid ref te another. m adopted. 407; rep
without arndt. 450; 3r, 450-5 1; r.a.. chap. Il. 1994. 478
Cultural Properby Exporb aid Import, incorne Tax. Tax Court of
Canada arndment bill C-93. Ir, 2152; 2r, 2182-83;
vef to cern. 2183; rep without amdt. 2246; 3r. 2272;
r.a.. chap. 38. 1995. 24 10
Customs, Customs Taviff ameidment bill C-102. Ir, 2153;
2r, 2180-82; ref te cern, 2182; rep witboub amdt. 2370;
3r, 2385; v.a.. chap. 41. 1995. 2411
Custorns Tariff arnendment bill C-5. 1r. 184; 2r, 225-27; ref te coin,
227; rep without arndt. 280; 3r, 287-88; r.a.. chap. 3,
1994.,298
Departrnent ot Agriculture amendment bill C-49. Ir, 871; 2r. 904-06;
ref te comn. 906; rep without amdt. 937; 3r, 937;
r.a.. chap. 38. 1994. 989
Department of Canadian Heritage bill C-53. Ir. 1182; 2r, 1216-19,
1229-30; ref te corn, 1230; rep withoub amdt but with
observation, 1529; 3r, 1529; r.a.. chap. IL. 1995. 1793
Departmeît of Citizenship aid Immigration bill C-35. Ir. 761;
2r, 761-63; ref te Comrnittee of the Whele. 763;
considered in Committee of the Whole. Hon. Eymard
Corbin in the Chair. Mr. Bob Blackburn, Assistant
Deputy Minister. Depavtrnent of Citizenship aid
Mr. D. Martin Low, Senior General Counsel. takiîg part
in the debate. 765-68;, vep wîbhoub amdt. 769; 3r, 769;
v.a.. chap. 31, 1994. 773
Departrnî et Foreign Affairs aid International Trade bill C-47.
Ir, 1182; 2r, 1220-21. 1244; ref te cern. 1244;
rep witbout amdt. 1355-56; 3r, 1378-81;, r.a.. chap. 5,
1995. 1446
Departrnent of Industry bill C-46. Ir, 1097; 2r, 1112-14; ref te cern.
1114; rep without arndt. 118 1; 3r. 1206; t.a.. chap. 1.
1995. 1334
Department of Labour ameidment bill C-30. Ir. 688; 2r. 715-17;
ref te cern. 717; rep witbeut amdt. 757; 3r. 757;
r.a.. chap. 30. 1994. 773
Departineni et National Revenue ameidmcnb bill C-2. h. 332;
2î. 383-85; ref te cer-n. 385; iep witheut amndt. 435;
3n. 456; r.a.. chai). 13. 1994. 478
l)cpartnîn ef Natural Rceui-ces bill C-48. hi. 984; 2r, 997- 100(1:
3
ret te corn. 101 1 rcp withet aindt. 10)18; 1î. 10 18:
r.a.. chap. 4h, 1994. 1177

Bis, Commons-Coi'd
Electoral Boundaries Readjustment. 1995 bill C-69. Ir, 1547;
2r, 1555-61; ret te cern. 1561L rep with seven arndts.
1725-27. adopted on div. 1730-35; 3r. on div. 1735:
message from Commons agreeing with one arndt and
disagareeing with others. 1836; rn to concur with
message from Commons. 1837-38; vote deferred on
in to adjourn debate. 1844-47: Speaker's ruling. 1847,
vote deferred on rnt te adjourn debate (con't). 1847-52;
point of order. 1896-903; Speaker's ruling. 1913. mi to
concur with message from Commons. Speaker's
statement. 1913: m to adjourn debate. adopted on div,
1913-14; m to concur with message from Commons.
1964-65; rn to refer question and message from
Commons to corn. adopted, 1965-69z rep from corn.
1979-80, 2019-24: rnt in amdt, 2024-30; neg on div,
2030-31; m in amdt. neg on div. 2031-36; rep adopted,
on div. 2036-37; m instructing comn to table final report.
2166, 2185-89; allotrnent of tirne for debate. 2201L
in instructing comn to table tinaI report (con't). 2235-36.
2262. 2272-78;, vote deferred, 2278; neg- on div.
2290-91; m instructing corn to table final rep no later
than December 13, 1995, 2399, 2423; point of order.
2423-28; Speaker's ruling, 2428-29, rnt (con't). 2429.
2444-46; vote deferred, 2470; mrneg, on div. 2483-84
Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Suspension. 1994 bill C- 18.
Ir. 302; 2r, 310-15, 325-26, 336-50; ref to comn. 350;
rep with amdts. 420-21, 439-41. 485-98. mi in amdt. neg,
on div. 498-99. rep adopted on div, 499 500; 3r, on div.
500; message frorn Commons concurring in two amdts
and amending one amdt. 619;. concurrence in Commons
amdt. 619. 633-39; r.a.. chap. 19. 1994. 664
Employrnent equity bill C-64. Ir, 2117; 2n. 2134-36. 2157-59; ref to
com. 2159; rep with amdts. 2316;, m in amdt. ref back
to corn, 2385. 2385-86; rep modified. rep without amdt.
2468-69; 3r, 2493-96; r.a.. chap. 44. 1995. 2546
Excise. Customs, Tobacco Sales te Young Persons amendment
bill C-Il1. Ir, 628; 2r, 657-58, 672-73; ret to com., 673;
rep wîthout amdt. 897; 3r. 915-16; r.a., chap. 37, 1994.
989
Excise Tax amendment bill C-13. Ir, 332; 2U 366-69; ref to corn,
369; rep without amdt. 367. 396; 3r, 425; r.a.. chap. 9.
1994.,478
Excise Tax. Excise amendrnent bill C-90. Ir, 2118; 2r. 2136-38;
ref to corn. 2138; rep without amdt. 2207; 3r, 2234;
r.a., chap. 36. 1995. 2240
Excise Tax, Excise. Income Tax arnendment bill C-32. Ir. 745;
2r, 745-48; ref to Cornrittee of the Whole. 748;
considered in Comrnîttee of the Whole. I-on. Eymard
Corbin in the Chair. Hon. David Walker, Parliamentary
Secretary to the Minîster of Finance taking pari in the
debate. 748-5SI; rep wibhout amndt. 751; 3r. 75 1;
r.a.. chap. 29, 1994. 773
Excise Tax. Incorne Tax arndment bill C-103. Ir, 2176;
2r, 2214-18; ref to comn. 2218; rep with one amdt. 2398.
2446-49; rn in amdt. adopted. on div. 2449 50;
rep (con t), 2450-52. 2480-83, neg on div. 2497-98;
3r,.2508-11l;r.a., chap. 46. 1995. 2546
Explosives amendrnent bill C-71. Ir, 2110; 2r, 2133. 2155-56;
rel to corn. 2156; rep without amdt. 2174; 3r, 2201;
r.a.. chap. 35, 1995. 2240
Farmi liiprovement and Marketing Cooperatives Loans ameidment
bill C-75. h. 1689; ý2î. 1718-19; icI te coin. 17I9; rep
without arndct. 1739; 3r. 1763; î.a.. chap. 13, 1995. 1794
Federal-Piovincial Fiscal Anrangement,, and Federal Pest-SecoîdarsN
Education and Hcalth Coni ihutions, amieniment
2
n.222-25: ret to coin. 225;
bilIC-3. I r I 84
wsithout aindi. 248; 31. 267; i.a.. chap. 2. 1994. 298
rcp

INDEX
Bills, Commons-Coor 'd
Fjrearms bill C-68. Ir. 17606 2r, 1811-24. 1904-12; ref to com.
61;
1912; m to instruct committee to table final report,
2109, 2121-24-. m in amdt (Lynch-Staunton) adopted,
2124-25:, m, as amended. adopted, 2125; rep with
14 amdts. 2243-46, 2252-62, 2320-42: ri in amdt
(Sparrow), ne- on div, 2343-44; m for adoption of rep,
neg on div. 2344; 3r. on div, 2344-45; r.a.. chap. 39,
1995. 2411
Government Organization (federal agencies) bill C-65. Ir, 1924;
2r. 1947-48;, ref to com. 1949; rep without amndt. 1977;
3r, 2011-13; rna., chap. 29, 1995, 2057
Immigration. Citizenship. Customs amendment bill C-44. Ir, 1182;
2r, 1219-20, 1241-44-, ref te, com. 1244; rep without
amdt. 1760; 3r, 1782-84, rna., chap. 15. 1995. 1794
Income Tax amendment bill C-9. Ir, 302; 2r, 315-16, 326-28;
ref to com. 328; rep without amdt. 332. 336; 3r, 360;
r.a.. chap. 13, 1994, 478
Income Tax amendment bill C-59. Ir. 1236; 2r, 1256-57, 1287-89;
ref to com. 1289; rep without amdt, 1339; 3r, 1362;
ra.. chap. 3. 1995, 1446
Income Tax amendment bill C-70. Ir, 1801; 2r. 1878-81; ref to com,
188 1; rep without amdt. 1889;, 3r, 1889:, r.a.. chap. 2 1,
1995. 1919
Income Tax Amendments Revision bill C-15. Ir, 332; 2r, 382-83;
ref to com, 383; rep without amdt, 397; 3r, 425;
r.a.. chap. 7, 1994, 478
Income Tax Conventions Implementation. 1995 bill C-105. Ir, 2152;
2r. 2178-79, ref to com, 2180; rep without amndt. 2207;
3r, 2234; rna., chap. 37, 1995, 2240
Income Tax. Income Tax Application Rules, Canada Pension Plan,
Canada
Business
Corporations.
Excise
Tax.
Unemployment Insurance amendment bill C-27.
Ir, 511; 2r, 558-50; ref to com, 560; rep without amdt.
627; 3r, 655; ra., chap. 21, 1994, 664
Lobbyists Registration amendment bill C-43. Ir, 1598; 2r, 1637-39,
1652-55; ref to corn. 1655; order rescinded and ref to
National Finance, 1677; rep without amdt, 1727;
3r, 1747; rna., chap. 12, 1995, 1793
Maintenance of Railway Operations. 1995 bill C-77. Ir, 1428;
2r, 1428-34; ref To Committee of the Whole, 1434;
consideration in Committee of the Whole, Hon. Eymard
G. Corbin in the Chair. Hon. Lucienne Robillard taking
part in the debate. 1434-45; rep without amdt, 1445;
3r, 1445; rna., chap. 6, 1995, 1446
Marine Transportation Security bill C-38. Ir, 912; 2r, 920-23;
ref to com, 923; rep without amdt, 984; 3r, 996-97;
r.a., chap. 40, 1994. 1177
Members of Parliament Retiring Allowances amtendment bill C-85.
Ir, 1913; 2r, 1938-42; ref To com, 1942; rep without
amndt. 1978; 3r, 2013-18; point of order, 2018;
3r (con't), on div, 2018-19; n.a., chap. 30, 1995, 2057
Migratory Birds Convention, 1994 bill C-23. Ir, 627; 2r, 699-702;,
ref to com, 702: rep without amndt, 726; 3r, 726;
n.a., chap. 22, 1994, 773
Miscellaneous Statute Law Amendment, 1994 bill C-40. Ir, 687;
2r, 704-05; 3r. 729; r.a., chap. 26. 1994, 773
National Housing amendment bill C-108. Ir, 2501; 2r, 2513-15;
ref to com. 1515; rep without amndt, 2527; 3r, 2527;
rna.. chap. 47. 1995. 2546
National Library amendment bill C-26. Ir, 511; 2r, 528-30,
refTo com. 530; rep without amdt. 654; 3r. 654;
r.a.. chap. 20, 1994. 664
National Sports of Canada bill C-212. I., 397; 2r. 425-27. 44 1. reftTo
Committec of the Whole next sitting. 441; considered
in Comrnittee of the Whole. Hon. Earl A. Hastings in
the Chair. 476: rep without amdt. 476; 3r. 476;
r.a., chap. 16. 1994. 478

Bis, Commons-Conr 'd
Old Age Security. Canada Pension Plan, Children's Special
Allowances. Unemployment Insurance amendment
bill C-54. Ir, 1890; 2r, 1934-38; ref To com, 1938;
rep without amndt but with recommendations, 1981;
3r, 2019; r.a.. chap. 33, 1995. 2057
Pearson International Airport Agreements bill C-22. 1Ir, 665;
2r, 677-79, 692-99, 729-34. 769-72, 773-79-, ref To com,
779; rep with six amdts. 788-89, 800-10; m in amdt.
810-13; allotmient of time for debate, 813-14; m in amndt
neg. 814-15; rep adopted on div. 815-16; 3r. 816-30; m
in amndt neg. 830-31; point of order, 831-32; 3r (con't).
as amended. on div, 832-33; Message from Commons
disagreeing with amdts, 845; m to concur with Message
from Commons, 845, 857-63; m referring question and
Message from Commons to com. adopted on div,
863-66; m instructing com To table final rep. 2399,
2429-32; debate concluded, 2470; m neg on div.
2484-85
Pictou Landing Indian Band Agreement bill C-60. Ir. 1223;
2r, 1255-56; ref to com. 1256;, rep without amdt. 1355;
3r, 1378; ra.. chap. 4, 1995, 1446
Railway Safety amendmnent bill C-21. Ir, 421; 2r, 438-39, 457; ref to
Comniittee of the Whole, 457; considered in Committee
of the Whole, Hon. Earl A. Hastings in the Chair,
475-76; rep without amdt, 476; 3r, 476; r.a.. chap. 15,

1994, 478
Royal Canadian Mint amendment bill C-82. Ir, 1890;, 2r, 1917-19.
1932-34; ref To corn, 1934; rep without amdt, 1978;
3r, on div, 1993-95; r.a., chap. 26, 1995, 2056
Sahtu Dene and Métis Land Claim Setulement bill C-16. Ir, 649;
2r, 676; ref to, com, 676; rep without amdt. 743-,3r, 743;,
rna.. chap. 27, 1994, 773
Small Business Loans amendment bill C-99. Ir. 2486; 2r, 2511-13;
ref To com. 2513; rep without amndt, 2538; 3r, 2538-39;
n.a., chap. 48, 1995. 2547
Split Lake Cree First Nation Flooded Land bill C-36. Ir, 912;
2r, 940-44; ref To corn, 944;, rep without amdt, 1039;
3r, 1058; rna., chap. 42, 1994, 1177
Unemployment Insurance amendment (jury service) bill C-216.
ir, 1236; 2r, 1257, 1293; ref To com. 1293; rep without
amdt, 1338; 3r, 1362;, r.a.. chap. 7, 1995. 1446
Veterans Review and Appeal Board bill C-67. Ir, 1649; 2r, 1663-69;
ref to com., 1669; rep without amdt. 1798; 3r, 1856-59;
rna., chap. 18, 1995, 1919
West Coast Ports Operations, 1994 bill C-10. In.64; 2r, 64-67; ref To
Comrnittee of the Whole, 67; considered in Committee
of the Whole, Hon. Eymard G. Corbin in the Chair.
Hon. Lloyd Axworthy, Mr. Michael McDermott and
Mr. Robert Cooke taking part in the debate, 67-75;
rep without amdt, 75; 3r, 75; r.a., chap. 1, 1994, 76
West Coast Ports Operations, 1995 bill C-74. Ir, 1315; 2r, 1316-24;
ref To Committee of the Whole. 1324; considered in
Committee of the Whole. Hon. P. Derek Lewis in the
Chair, Hon. Lucienne Robillard. Mr. Pierre Hamell and
Mr. James Lahey taking part in the debate, 1324-33;
rep without amdt, 1333; 3r, 1333; r.a.. chap. 2, 1995.
1334
World Trade Organization Agreement Implementation bill C-57.
Ir, 1038; 2r, 1058-63, 1070-75; ref To com, 1075;
rep without amdt but with observations and
1170-75;
3r, 1164.
1163-64;
recommendations,
r.a.. chap. 47, 1994. 1177
Young Offenders. Criminal Code amendment bill C-37. I r, 1281;
2r, 1289-91. 1344-47;. ref To com, 1348; rep without
amdt but with observations. 1798-800; 3r, 1859 70;
rna.. chap. 19. 1995. 1919
Yukon First Nations Land Claims Agreement bill C-33. 1Jr.75 1;
2r-. 751-56; rel' To com. 757; rep without amdt. 784;
3r. 784-87 rna.. chap. 34, 1994. 837

Bis, Commons-Con>''d
Yukon Fîrst Nations Self-government bill C-34. Ir, 757: 2n. 757-61;
ref to com. 761!; rep without amdt. 788; 3r, 788:
i.a.. chap. 35. 1994. 837
Yukon Surface Rigbîs Board bill C-55. Ir, 994: 2r, 1042-44, ref to
com. 1044; rep without amdt but with an observation,
1093; 3r, 1093-96;rna., chap. 43, 1994. 1177
Bis. Senate
Alternative Fuels for InternaI Combustion Engines bill S-7. Ir. 1084:
2r, 1114-15; ref to com. 1115; rep witbout amdt.
1518-19; 3r, 1542: message trom Commons that bill
passed witb ten amdts. 1798; m for concurrence in
Commons amdts. 1802. 1832-34. 1884; amdts ref to
coin. 1884-85; rep agreeing with amdts. 1889:
r.a., chap. 20. 1995. 1919
Canada-United States Tax Convention amendment bill S-9. Ir, 1373:
2r, 1458-60; ref to com, 1460: rep without amdt. 1547:
3r. 1574-: message froin Commons that bill passed
witbout amdt. 2133; r.a.. cbap. 34. 1995. 2240
Canadian Association of Lutheran Congregations incorporation
bill S-5. Ir. 273; 2r. 403-04: ref to com. 404:
rep without amdt. 548. adopted, 588: mi in amdt,
606-07; 3r, 607; message from Commons thai bill
passedi without amndt. 650: r.a., 664
Certified General Accountants' Association bill S-8. Ir, 1210:
2r. 1258. 1293; ref to coin, 1293
Criminal Code amendment bill S-13. Ir. 237 1; 2rn 2407- 10
Criminal Code amnendmnent (dang-erous intoxication) bill S-6. Ir, 919;
2r, 956-59, 975-76, 987-88: point of order. 988:
2r (eon't). 10 12-14, 1044-46; ret to coin. 1046
Criminal Code amendinent (plea bargaining) bill S- 15. Ir, 2487
Evangelical Missionary Church (Canada West District) bill S-12.
Ir, 2316; 2r. 2386. ret to coin. 2386: rep witb one amndt,
2436. adopted. 2458; 3n. 2458: message from Commons
that bill passed without amdt. 2543: r.a.. 2547
Fîrst Nations Governinent bill S-10. Ir. 1487. 1601-02; mi for
2r, 1618;: m to defer adlourned to await ruling of
ruling.
1669-70:
Speaker.
1618-22: Speaker's
2r deferred. 1670
General Security Insurance Company of Canada bill S-3. Ir, 78:
2r, 123-24, 173: ref to coin. 173; interim rep. 482-83:
rep without amdt. 483: 3r, 517; interim rep adopted.
517: passed by Commons without amdt. 76 1: r.a. 773
Incomne Tax Conventions bill S-2. 1Ir.4 1; 2r, 98- 100: ret to com., 100:
rep without amdt. 183; 3r, 203: r.a.. chap. 17. 1994. 664
Karla Homolka bill S-Il. Ir, 2110; point ot order. 2139-43:
Speaker's ruling. 2367-68: order discharged and bill
witbdrawn, 2368
Merchant navy veteran and civilian war-related benefits amendiment
bill S-4. Ir, 92: 2r. 156-57, 173, 193, 243. 259-60. 606
Tobacco Products Restrictions bill S-14. Ir, 2437; 2r, 2536-37.
2582-84: ref to coin. 2584
Black History Month, si, 1179- 80
Blackburn, Mr. Bob, Assistant Deputy Minister, Department of
Citizenship and Immigration
Departinent ot Citizenship and Immigration bill C-35, considered in
Committee of the Whole. 765
Bolduc, Hon. Roch
Appropriation No. 4. 1994-95 bill C-79. 1457
Auditor General. dispute with departinents over unreported
liabilities. go\ciomient policy. qo. 1728. (r) 2075
Beaulieu. Hon. Mai io. tiibutes on occasion oh re.sienation. 741-42)
Budget 1995. Statemient of Minister of' Finance. inquiry. 1368.
463-64
Budget Implemientation. 1994 amendinent bill C- 17. 535-37

Bolduc, Hon. Roch-Gant'd
Budget Implementation. 1995 bill C-76. 1852-53
Canada Social Transter. 1853
Labour costs. 1852
Net effect. 1852
Rig-ht 10 neg-otiarion. 1852
Social policy. 1853
Statutory restrictions. 1853
Transfers to provinces. 1853
Voluntary early retirement sebeme. 1852
Budget. methods of deficit reduction. goveroment position, qu. 1097
Budget. Statement of Minister of Finance. inquiry. 266. 373-75
Collège militaire royal de St-Jean. 374, 375
Fiscal policy. 373
Industrial strategy, 373
Prtce stabiltty. 373
Regulatory policy. 373
Trade policy. 373
Canada-Europe Parliamentary Association, report of Canada
delegation tabled. 397
Canada's Defence Polîey, Special Joint Committee report. 1089-90.
1091, 1092
Air force. 1090
Defence budget, 1090. 1092
Navy. 1090
Reserves. 1090
Custoins, Customs Tariff amendment bill C- 102. 2181-82
Duty deferral prograins. 2181
Manufacturing inputs. 2181
Travellers' exemptions. 2181
Department of Foreign Attairs and International Trade bill C-47.
1378-79, 1380-81
Spending- estimates, 1379
Energy. the Envîroninent and Natural Resources Committee
National Protected Areas Strategy, authority to conduct study. 388
Fisheries and oceans, timeltness of annual departinental report,
govemment policy, qu. 2366
Humant Resources Developinent
Child care. federal offer of funding
Fiscal inequality amnong provinces. qu. 2502
Provincial cuts to prograins. govemment position. qu.2501
Unemployment insurance reforin. division of responsibilîty for
job training, government position. qu. 2404
Intergoverninental affaîrs. possibility of agreement on professional
developinent. qu. 985
International trade. agreement on participation of provinces.
governinent position, qu. 1574
Legal and Constitutional Affairs Committee. notice of motion to
insîruct coi to table final rep re C-69, point of order.
Speaker's ruling. 2393
National defence. Royal Military College at St-Jean. decrease in
recruitinent. government position, qu. 1-357
Nattonal finance
Debt and deficit management. evaluation of International
Monetary Fund. governinent position. qu. 2465
Report of Auditor General, long-termn management of debt and
deficit. goveroiment position. qu. 2265
National Finance Committee report
6th. Estimates. 1994-95, 657. 735-36
College militaire royal at St-Jean, 735-36
Nattonal Housing amendment bill C-108, 2514-15
Mortgag-e boan insurance. 2514
Officia] langoag-es. access of trancophones to Internet network.
qu. 1651
Pearson International Airpori Agiecmients bill C-22. 778
Sciencc. rcsearch and dcx clopincot. tax crcdits oi- rescarch and
dc\,clopinent. qUi.994. tri 1169)
Winter Olvipics 2f002. candidacy of Qucbcc City. st. 1612

INDEX
Bolduc, Hon. Roch-Conr 'd
World Trade Organization Agreement Implementation bill C-57.
1170-71
Subsidy, 1171

Tariff cuts. 1171
Uruguay Round, Il171

Bonneil, Hon. M. Lorne

Atlantic Canada. tourism. source of employment. government
policy. st. 510
Bosa. Hon. Peter. tributes on receiving Spanish Order. 855
Canada Remnembers. fiftieth anniversary of D-Day. st, 578-79
Carter. the laie Hon. Chesley William. tribute. 91
David. Hon. Paul. tributes on retirement fromt the Senate. 1162
Department of Labour amendment bill C-30. 715-17
Additional funding from province. 717
Adjustment payments. 716
Atlantic Groundfish Adlustment Program. 715
Atlantic Groundfish Strategy. 715
Eligibility for benefits, 716
Fish Plant Older Worker Adjustment Program. 715
Labour adjustmnent, 715
Northemn Cod Adjustrment Recovery Program, 715
Unemployment in Newfoundland and Labrador. 716
Employment equity bill C-64. 2496
Frith. Q.C., Hon. Royce. tribute on retirement as High
Commissioner to London. st, 2608
InterrnaI Economny. Budgets and Administration Comimittee report
l3th. Senate Estimates 1995-96. 1082
Inter-Parliamentary Deleg-ation to Australia. report tabled. 877
Macquarrie. Hon. Heath, tributes on retirement, 723-24
Marshall, Hon. Jack
Tributes on papal citation of special recognition. 845
Tributes on retirement, 981
Muir. Hon. Robert. tributes on retirement, 893-94
National Flag of Canada, thirtieth anniversary of designation as
national emblemn. st. 1180
Neiman. Hon. Joan. tribute on retirement. 2042-43
Old Age Security. Canada Pension Plan, Children's Special
Allowances. Unemployment Insurance amendment
bill C-54. 1934-35
Client services. 1934
Guaranteed incomne supplements. 1935
Retiremnent income. 1935
Retroactive benefits. 1935
Spouses' allowance. 1935
Temporary benefits. 1935
Prince Edward Island, tribute to Sir Andrew Macphail. document
tabled. 917-18
Railway Safety amendment bill C-21. 438-39
Enforcement, 438
Fencing. 438
Native people, 438
Penalty. 438
Prospectors, 438
Safety. 438

Trespassing, 438
Rowe. the late Hon. Frederick George. tribute. 685
Senate
Prince Edward Island, appointment of new senator, govemnment
position. qu. 1453
Social Affairs. Science and Technology Commnittee
Authority to meet during sittings of the Senate. 1339. 1957. 2265
Reports
6th. Unemployment Insurance amendment bill C-216. 1338
7th. Department of Canadian Heritage bill C-53. without amdt
but with observation. 1529
8th. Immigration. Citizenship. Customs amendmnent bill C-44.
1760

See Journals of the Senate

Bonneli, Hon. M. Lorne-Coni 'd
Social Affairs. Science and Technology Committee-Cont'd
9th. Veterans Review and Appeal Board bill C-67,
without amdt. 1798
lOth. Old Age Security. Canada Pension Plan. Children*s
Special Allowances. Unemployment Insurance
amendment bill C-54. without amdt. but with
recommendations. 1981
Il th, Employment equity bill C-64, with amdts. 2316
See Joumals of the Senate
I 2th, Employment equity bill C-64, without amdt, 2468-69
I 3th. National Defence, Special Commission on Restructuring
of the Reserves. 2499
See Joumals of the Senate
Sylvain, Hon. John. tribute on resignation from Senate, 2608
Transport and Communications Committee
Authority to engage services. 250, 274
Marine safety. study on mandate and staffing of lightstations.
question for chairman, qu. 954, 955
Report
8th. Buffalo and Fort Erie Public Bridge Company amendment
bill C-81, 1774
Unemployment Insurance amendment bill C-2 16. 1362
Victory in Europe. fiftieth anniversary celebration ceremonies in
Netherlands. attendance by veterans. st, 1887-88
Book entitled "Above the Law", inquiry, 848, 1063-65

lntegrity. 1064
Oath of secrecy. 1064
Police and media. 1065
RCMP, 1064. 1065
Two-tiered justice system, 1064
Speaker: Senator
Kelly. William M., 848, 1063-65
Borrowing Authority, 1994-95 bill C-14. Ir, 282; 2r. 288-93; ref to
corn of the Whole. 293; considered in Committee of the
Whole, Hon. Earl A. Hastings in the Chair. Mr. David
Walker. Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister of
Finance taking part in the debate. 293-97: rep without
amdt. 297; 3r, 297; r.a., chap. 4, 1994. 298
Balance, 289, 290, 291
Calculation of charges. 288
Deficit. 292
Domestic debt program., 289. 291
Expiration. 288
Foreign exchange account earnings. 288
Personal income tax. 289, 290
Reductions, 289
Relationship between borrowing authority and budget, 289
Roîl-over treasury bills. 288
Tax base. 289, 290
Tax increases. 292
Speakers: Senators
Doody, C. William. 291, 292. 293. 295. 296. 297
Fairbaim. Joyce, 293
Frith, Royce, 288-91, 292, 293, 297
Lynch-Staunton. John, 290. 292-93, 294-95
Murray, Lowell, 297
and witness in Committee of the Whole
Walker. Mr. David, Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister
of Finance. 293-94. 295. 296-97
Borrowing Authority, 1995-96 bll C-73. Ir, 1469; 2r, 1478-81; ref to
com. 1481;- rep without amdt, 1487; 3r, 1487;
r.a.. chap. 8. 1995. 1498
Authority t0 cover borrowing. 1479
Business subsidies. 1479
Canada Savings Bonds. 1480
1)ebt operations. 1479
[)ebt-to-GDP ratio. 1479
Exchangce Fund Account. 1479. 1480

Borrowing Authority, 1995-96 bill C-73-Coni'd
Foreign currency debt. 1480
Goveromeni spending. 1478
Non-lapsing amount. 1479
Personal income tax. rates. 1479
Smaller public service. 1479
Technical provisions of bill, 1479
Transfers to provinces. 1479
Speakers: Senators
Doody. C. William. 1480-81
Graham. B. Alasdair. 1487
Hays. Dan. 1478-80

Bosa, Hon. Peter
Adams. Hon. Willie. tributes on l8th anniversary of appointment to
the Senate. 1522
Address in reply te, Speech from the Throne. 104 OS5
Business Developmenî Bank of Canada bill C-91, 1942-44. 1995
Bank boans. 1943
Community Business Initiatives, 1943
Crown corporation's mission. 1942
New name. 1944
Small business. 1942
Davey. Hon. Keith. tribute on twenty-eighth anniversary of
appointment to Senatc. st, 159
Department of Canadian Heritage bill C-53. 1218
Department of Citizenship and Immigration bill C-35. 761-63. 766,
767. 768.,769
Backlog, 762
Citîzenship ceremonies. 762
Responsibilities of new deparîment. 762
Employment equity bill C-64. 2495. 2496
Energy, the Environment and Natural Resources Committee report
3rd. Budget. National Protected Areas Strategy study. 639
Ethîcs CounselloiExistence of Joint Committee on Code of Conduct. qu. 2383
Joint Committee on Code of Conduct. relevance to
Pari iamen tarians. qu. 2384
Euthanasia and Assisted Suicide. Special Senate Committee Report
lst. Budget. 587
Excise Tax, Excise amendiment bill C-90, 2136-37
Air transportation tax. 2136
Gasoline. 2136
Seizure and notification. 2136
Tobacco products. 2136. 2137
Frith. Hon. Royce. tributes on resignation front the Senate and
appointment as High Commîssioner for Canada to the
United Kin-dom, 842
Govermcent of Canada, human rights policies. inquiry. 790
Health. impact of changes to tobacco taxes. inquiry. 523-24, 525.
717. 782
Action Plan on Smugg.linge. 782
Anti-smoking campaign. 523, 524. 525. 782
Cigarette smuggling. 524
Enforcernent. 523
Government Action Plan on Smuggling. 523. 524
Health care costs. 524
House oh Commons Standing Commîttee on Health. inquîîy. 524
Impact of tax roîllback on smuggling. 782
Plain packaging .524
Tobacco Diversification Plan. 523
Tobacco mianulacturers. 523
Immigration. Citizenship, Cusiomis amendmieni bill C-44, 1219-20,
1781.1784
Ciîi/enNhip. I 19
Criimnals 1219
"Danger to ili

I)l]

. 1784

Bosa, Hon. Peter-Coi d
Imimig-ration. Citizenship, Customs amendînient bill C-44-Coni'd
Fair access. 1219
Right of appeal. 1219, 1220
Rule of law. 1219
Serious crime. 1220
Income Tax Conventions Implementation. 1995 bill C-105.
2178-79. 2234
Bill iniîîated in Commons. 2179. 2234
Copyright royalties. 2178
Double taxation. 2178
Exemptions 10 interest. 2178
Withholding tax rate. 2178. 2179
InternaI Economy. Budgets and Administration Committee Reports
7th. Legal and Constitutional Affairs Committee budget. 588
8th. Transport and Communications Committee budget. 588
9th. Internai Economy. Budgets and Administration Committee
budget. 589
Il th. Agriculture and Forestry Committee budget. 640
1nter- Pari iamentary Union
Inter- Pariliamcntary Conference on North-South Dialogue tor
Global Prosperity. Ottawa. Canada. rep tabled. 8.
inquiry. 9, 62-63
9Oth lnter-Parlîamentary Conterence. Canberra, Australia.
rep tabled. 8. inquiry. 9. 61-62
91lsî Inter-Parliamentary Conference. Parts, France. rep tabled.
421. inquiry. 421, 525-26
Canada and France. bilateral relations. 525
Bilaicral tradte. 525
Fishing quotas. 525
Human rights. 526
Treaty on the Non-Prolîteration of Nuclear Weapons. 526
92nd Conference. Copenhagen. Denmark. rep tabled. 872,
Inquiry. 873. 923-26
Cultural exchangaes. 923
Gender neutral langauage. 924
Human rights abuses, 925
Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. 924
Twelve Plus Croup. 925
University exchange programs. 924
Uruguay Round. 924
World Summit on Social Development, 924
93rd Inter-Parliamentary Conference. Madrid. Spain, rep tabled.
1615,.inquiry 1615, 1656-58
Canada-Spain fishing-. 1657
Human Rights of Parliamentarians. 1658
United Nations Security Council. 1658
94th lnter-Parliamentary Conference. Bucharest. Romania.
rep tabled. 2230, inquiry. 2231, 2368-69
Special Session of Inter-Parliamientary Council on Fifiieth
Anniversary of creation of United Nations, report of
Canadian Croup. rep tabled. 2068. inquiry 2068,
2162-63
Security Council. 2162-63
Legal and Constitutional Affairs Commnittee reports
2nd. Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Suspension. 1994
bill C-18. 498
8th. Pearson International Airport Agreements bill C-22, 789
Macquarrie. Hon. Heath, tributes on retîrement. 722
Mîscellaneous Statute Law Amendment. 1994 bill C-40. 729
South Africa. first democratie elections. inquiîy. 640
Split Lake Cree Firsi Nation Flooded Land bill C-36. 943
Transpor t and Communications Committee. authority to siudy
telecommunications. 1526
Tiibuics on receis'ing Spanish Qi dei. 855
United Nations. Peimnanent Secretaniat on Biohooical [)iveî sît to he
located in Monti cal. si. 2361-62
West Coast Ports Operations. 1994 bill C 10. considei cd in
Comninitice oh tOc Wholc. 73

INDEX
Bosnia
Ban on sale of armaments. govemment policy. qu. 333
Canada's commitmnent to NATO air strikes. government position.
93-94
Coherence of NATO strategy. govemment policy. qu. Il11-12, (r) 287
Conditions for continuation of peacekeeping mission. visit of UN
Secretary-General. government position. qu. 1040,
(r) 1341-42
NATO air strikes on un-designated safe areas. government policy.
qu, 333
Release of detained peacekeepers, 1087
United Nations
Future role for peacekeepers. st. 1036-37
Request for NATO air strikes. government position. qu. 30.3-04
Use of air strikes, Canada's role. govemment position, qu, 94, 115
See also United Nations
Bouchard, Hon. Lucien
Best wishes for a speedy recovery, st, 1056
Best wishes on recovery. st. 1054
Media handling of news of illness of the Honourable Leader of the
Opposition, st. 10-55
British Columbia, proposais on national unity issues. unfair treatment
of province, st, 2396

Bryden, Hon. John G.-Cont 'd
Victory in Europe. fiftieth anniversary celebration ceremonies.
presence of Prime Minister. st, 1630
West Coast Ports Operations. 1995 bill C-74, 1322-23
Collective bargaining. 1322
Fine. 1322. 1323
Buchanan, P.C., Hon. John
Address in reply to Speech fromt the Throne, 143-45. 146
Coastal Fisheries Protection amendment bill C-29, 460
Flags of convenience, 460
Northwest Atlantic Fisheries Organization (NAFO). 460
Miles, Johnny. Cape Breton marathoner, tributes on ninetieth
birthday. st. 2131-32
Muir, Hon. Robert, tributes on retrement, 891
Pictou Landing Indian Band Agreement bill C-60, 1256
Indian moneys. 1256
Transport. Federal provincial Strategic Hig-hway Improvement
Program, Nova Scotia
Diversion of funds, request for examination by Auditor General of
Canada. mn,1700-01
Fleur-de-lis Trail, 1700. 1701
Highway 104.,1700
Restoration of funding to designated project. request for update.
qu. 1690, (r) 1991-92

Budget
Action against high interest rates. government position. qu. 1086
Canadian Broadcasting Corporation, justification of funding
government position. qu. 163
Changes to rules governing RRSP contributions, position of
governnent. 96
Closure and future use of Downsview Military base, governiment
position. qu. 238-39, (r) 324
See appendix p. 331A
Closure of Military College at St-Jean. related additional costs.
qu, 623. (r) 670-71
Effect of carbon tax on cost of agricultural production. 94
Elderly benefits assessed by household income, government
position, qu. 953
Brockhouse, Dr. Bei-tramn Neville, felicitations on receiving Nobel
Elimination of tax breaks for health and dental plans. government
Prize for physics. st. 950
position. qu. 1110
Extension of wage freeze for public servants. government position,
qu. 132-33
Bryden, Hon. John G. (introduced in the Senate Nov.29/94), 991-92
Grants to muicipalities in lieu of taxes, government policy. qu. 216,
Income Tax amrendment bill C-59, 1256-57
(r) 310
Age credit. 1257
Impact of budget on Atlantic region. concept of fairness,
Business meals. 1257
govemment position. qu. 165
"Butterfly transactions". 1257
International Space Station Program. status of Canada's
Capital gains. 1257
commitmnent. government position, qu. 161-63,
Charitable donations. 1257
(r) 221-22
Entertainment expenses. 1257
Request for clarification. qu, 236. (r) 1985-86
Life insurance. 1257
Methods of deficit reduction, governiment position, qu. 1097
Mine reclamation expenses, 1257
Milita-y and funding cut-backs, effect on employment. qu, 134-35
Regional investmrent tax credits, 1257
New Brunswick, effect of changes to unemployment insurance,
RRSP-based Home Buyers' Plan, 1257
goveroment position, qu. 188, (r) 308-09
Small business deduction. 1257
Private pension income. possible elimination of tax credit,
Tax shelters, 1257
consultation with senior citizens, qu, 1239
New Brunswick. Liberal victory in provincial election. st, 2090
Proposed closure of Collège Militaire Royal de St-Jean
Pearson Airport Agreements. Special Senate Committee report.
Request for clarification. qu. 334, (r) 668
2622. 2623. 2624. 2625-28
Reversai of decision. governiment position. qu. 185, 217. 218-20,
Royal Canadian Mint amendment bill C-82. 1918
(r) 309, 668
Saskatchewan, congratulations to Liberal Party on becoming officiaI
Proposed closure of Royal Military College at St-Jean
opposition. st. 1889
Request for update. qu. 622
Transport
Resuimption of discussions. government position. qu. 1111
Measure to terminate railway strike. considered in Committee of
Proposed closure of Royal Military College of St-Jean. 398-99
the Whole. 1389. 1399. 1400. 1403. 1404. 1413. 1414.
Cancellation of decision. govemnment position. qu. 305
1415-16
Question of privilege. 227
to
Pearson International Airport. nm strike Special Committee to
Reversai of decision. government position. qu. 237-38
inquire into privatization contracts. 1578-79
Statement. 247
Unemiployrnent Insurance amiendinient bill C-216. 1257
R & D cut-backs. effect on British Columbia. qu. 135
Jury duty. 1257

British Columbia Treaty Commission bill C-107. Ir. 2371;
2r, 2406-07, 2422-23; ref to comn, 2423; rep without
arndt. 2486; 3r, 2508; r.a., chap. 45, 1995. 2546
Commissioners. 2407
First Nations Summit, 2407. 2422. 2423
Regional advisory committees. 2407
Treaty negotiation. 2422
Treaty Negotiation Advisory Conmmtee. 2407
Speakers: Senators
Andreychuk. A. Raynell. 2422-23
Marchand, Len, 2406-07. 2423

Budget-Coi>; 'd
Reaction of' International Monetary Fund to government's proposai
to reduce deficît. g-overroment responsc. qu. 953-54
Reduction of' federal debt and annuai deficit. government policy.
qu. 952-53
Registered Retirement Savings Plans. governiment position on
possible chang-es. qu. 994-95. (r) Il112
Remnovai of tax credit. eftect on seniors. qu. 136-37
Request for date ot presentation. qu. 1225
Government response. i1227
Request tor for-mai debate. government position. qu. 1227-28
Review of goal for deficît reduction. governiment position.
qu. 1085-86
State of the economy. government position. qu. 1226
Tax increases for wealthy Canadians. governiment position,
qu. 1223-24
Threshold tor clawbacks. consultations with senior citizens.
qu. 1238-39
Unemployment insurance. change in duration of dlaims. governiment
position. qu. 163-64
Budget 1995
Canceliation of goods and services tax. Oovern ment position.
qu. 1251
Closure of agricuitural research stations. govern ment position.
qu. 1286-87
Cuts to Canada Counicil and other arts organizations. st. 1280
Defence lndustry Producti vity Program. government position.
qu. 1373-74, (r) 1552
Detînition of tax loophole. qu. 1237
Elimination of'Atlantic freigcht rate subsidies. st. 1295
Elîmination of'Crow Rate subsîdy
Etfect on grain shîpping ports. governiment poiin qu. 1284,
(r) 1360-61
End ol" grain marketing mionopoiy of' Canadian Wheat Board.
governiment position. qu. 1285
Maintenance ol'grain economy in Manitoba. governiment position.
qu. 1286, (r) 1616
Possibility of assistance from Western Economic Diversification.
government position. qu. 1286, (r) 1617
Elimînation of Public Utîlîties Income Tax Transfer Act. effect on
Province of Alberta, goverrnment position. qu. 1251-52
Inequality in tundîng treatment of Atlantic agencies. qu. 1302-03.
(r) 1744
Prýecedence of budget statement of Finance Mtnister over Red Book.
governiment position. qu. 1250
Ratio of spending cuts to tax increases. aovernm-ent position.
qu. 1251
Reduction te, international assistance envelope. government position.
qu. 1250-51
Refor-m of Old Age Security
Eflect on elderly women of application of clawback to, househoid
income. qu. 1287
Ettect on older married women of application of clawback to
household income. qu. 1252-53
Status of RRSP as tax loophole. govermment position. qu. 1237-38,
(r) 1549-50
Budget 1995, Statement of Minister of Finance. înquîry. 1237.
1261-70. 1291-93. 1305-12. 1348-50. 1362-68. 1462-64.
150307. 1523-25,.160811l
Agriculture. 1262. 1291-93, 1308
Air Command. 1305
Atlantic Canada. 13 10 i
131
Canada Health and Social Transtei. 1506
Canada Jo~bs Suategly. 1262
Canada Social T ansi ci. 1504
Cbild abuse. 1306
Chiid caie. 1S06
Ch id Dev\ lopient Initiativ Is
cldi ngý.
i1507

Budget 1995, Statemnent of Minister of Finance-Cot'd
Child poverty. 1506
Children. 1505-07
Competîtion with U.S.. 1292
Debt. 1348. 1608
Debt ratio. 1350
Defence. 1611
Deticit. 1348, 1362. 1363, 1608
Dominion Bond Rating Service. 1523. 1524
Down-sizing. 1523
Employment. 1308
Faimess. 1305, 1308. 1310. 1608. 1610
Family violence. 1306
Farm subsidies. 1264
Federai debt. 1263. 1264, 1267
Federal employ ment. 1261
Federal government cutbacks. 1349
Federal provincial fiscal relations. I1365
Financial strategy, 1266
Freight subsidies. 13 10
GST. 1363. 1368
Govemment cuts, 1364. 1365
Grain prices. 1291
Healih care system, 1349, 160&. 1610
lnterest rates. 1261
Land prices. 1292
Landowners. 1291
Maritime Freight Rates Act, 1262
Medicai services. 1307
Medicare. 1367
National delicit-reduction strategy. 130)9
National Finance Committee. role of-. 1268, 1269.,1270
National standards. 1365. 1366, 1367, I1504, 1505
Old age pensions. 1349
Post-secondary education. 150)4, 1505
Program spending. 1350
Quebec, 1349
Research and development. 1292
St. Lawrence Seaway, 1292
Senate. role of. 1268
Seven-to-one ratio. 1267. 1312
Social polîcy, 1504
Social reform. 1263
Social transfers. 1349
Subsîdies. 1348, 1349. 1365. 1523
Tax increases. 1365
Tobin tax. 1525
Transferpayments. 1307, 1310. 1349. 1363, 1523. 1608, 1610
Transportation Adjustment Program. 1310. 1349
Two-year targets. 1525
UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. 1506. 1507
Unemployment. 1363
Unemployment Insurance. 1262. 1263
U.S. economy. 1523
Welfare. 1307
Western Grain Transportation Agency. 1264. 1306
Speakers: Senators
Austin. Jack. 1523-25
Bacon. Lise. 1348-50
Bemntson. Eric Arthur. 1463
Bolduc, Roch. 1368, 1463-64
Carstairs, Sharon. 1305-07
Cohen. Erminie J.. 1309-Il
Cools. Anne C.. 1263
Gustalson. Leonaîd J.. 1267. 1291-93
Keon. Wilbeit J.. 1266
Kinsella. Noël A.. l366. 1367. 1368. 15S03-05
Kirk. Michael. 1364-66. 1367-68
Lvncb Stauniiton. John. 1366-67. 1368
Mourray Loseil1 1'61i-63. i1367, 1i251
Nolin. Pierre Chaude, 1266

INDEX
Budget 1995, Statemnent of Minister of Finance-Conr 'd
Speakers: Senators-Conit'd
Oison. H.A.. 1261. 1263, 1264-66. 1267, 1268-69
Pearson. Landon. 1505-07
Prud'homme. Marcel. 1268. 1269-70
Roberge. Fernand, 1362-64
Spivak, Mira. 1237, 1261. 1307-09
Stewart. John B.. 1269
Stratton. Tenry. 1608-11
Tkachuk, David. 1267. 1268. 1311-12
Budget Implemnentation bill, 1995
Federal provincial negotiations to establish standards for health and
social transfers, qu. 1635
Proposed amendments to reflect national standards, request for
particulars. qu. 1635-36, (r) 1745
Budget Implemnentation, 1994 amnendmnent bill C-17. Ir, 512;
2r, 530-37; 556-58; ref to com. 558z rep without amdt.
618; 3r. on div. 631-32; n.a.. chap. 18. 1994. 664
Atlantic Canada. 533, 557
Benefit entitiement schedule, 631
Canadian Broadcasting Corporation. 533. 556, 557, 631, 632
Cap on CAP. 631
Child care, 534
Deficit, 531, 632
Economidc growth. 530, 531
Entrance requirement. 631I
Established Programs Financing. 531
Freight subsidies, 532. 533, 534, 631
Job creation. 530. 531
Labour adjustmnent. 531
Reduction in transfers, 532
Social security reform. 532
Transfer payments, 534
Unemployment insurance. 531, 534, 535, 557, 631
Wage freeze, 532, 631
WGTA payments, 632
Speakers: Senators
Bolduc. Roch, 535-37
Cohen, Erminie J., 533-35
Doody, C. William. 531, 532
Lynch-Staunton. John. 531, 532. 533
MacDonald. Finlay, 556
OIson, H.A.. 530-31, 532-33
Phillips. Orville H., 532. 533, 556, 557-58
Budget Implemnentation, 1995 bill C-76. Ir, 1713; 2r, 1729-30.
1747-51. 1763-70; ref to com, 1770; rep withiout amdt,
1773; supplementary rep, 1796; 3r, 1806-11, 1852-53.
1854-56; r.a.. chap. 17, 1995, 1919
Adult students. 1764
Aging population, 1750
Assistance to business, 1729
Canada Assistance Plan, 1748
Canada Health and Social Transfer. 1729, 1748, 1763, 1764. 1768,
1809, 1853
Canada Scholarship Program, 1764. 1769
Canadian federalism, 1766. 1767
Constitutional right to life, 1751
Downsizing. 1730
Early departure incentive. 1730
Established Programs Financinga. 1748
Federal employment. 1730
Freight rates. 1729. 1765
Freshwater research. 1854-55
Funding for universities and colleg-es. 1764
Grain transportation. 1765
Health. 1729

Health care funding. 1750. 1751
Labour costs. 1852

Budget Implemnentation, 1995 bill C-76-Cont'd
Labour relations. 18t08 1809
Medicare. 1750. 1751
National standards. 1768
Net effect. 1852
Post-secondary educanion. 1729. 1763. 1764
Prairie farmn land. 1750. 1765
Prairie Farm Rehabilitation Association. 1807
Quebec, 1767
Reform of Western Grain Transportation Act, 1729
Research and development. 1768
Right to negotiation. 1852
Royal Canadian Legion, 1856
Social policy. 1853
Statutory restrictions. 1853
Student debt load. 1764
Subsidies. 1730
Surplus employees. 1730
Transfers to provinces. 1729. 1748, 1853
Transportation costs. 1750
Universal health care system. 1750. 1751. 1766
Voluntary early retirement scheme. 1852
Western grain transportation subsidy. 1729
Workforce Adjustment Directive. I1808
Speakers: Senators
Berntson. Eric Arthur. 1807
Bolduc, Roch. 1852-53
Cochrane, Ethel. 1763-65
Corbin. Eymard G.. 1729-30. 1770
Graham. B. Alasdair. 1806
Gustafson. Leonard J.. 1765
Keon. Wilbert J.. 1750-51
Kinsella. Noël A.. 1767-69
Murray, Lowell. 1770. 1807-10. 1811
OIson, H.A.. 1806. 1807
Philtips. Orville H.. 1855-56
Rivest. Jean-Claude. 1765-67
Robertson, Brenda M.. 1809. 18 10
Spivak. Mira. 1747-50. 1854-55
Thériault. L. Norbert, 1810. 1811
Budget Plan, program funding, tabled, 1170
Budget, Statemnent of Minister of Finance, inquiry. 132. 208- L
229-32. 244-46. 260-66. 328-31, 369-75. 427-28.
537-40. 560-64. 589-94, 607
Acid ram., 590
Agricultural subsidy reform. 591
Air pollution. 590
Atlantic Canada. 370. 371.ý 372. 373. 538, 592. 593
Atlantic Canada Opportunity Agency. 370. 372
Atlantic provinces. 260
Canada Investment Fund, 330
Child poverty. 563
Child welfare, 561
Collège militaire royal de St-Jean, 374, 375
Conservation Reserve Program in U.S.. 592
Conversion subsidies. 592
Debt. 539
Debt service charges. 245
Defence bases. closures. 371
Deficit. 208. 209. 427
Democracy. 262. 263. 264. 427
Emissions credits. 591
Empowerment of people, 231
Energy and air pollution taxes. 590. 591
Environental taxes. 589. 590)
Federalism. 262
Fiscal policy. 373
Fishiniz industry. 3701
Foreign deht. 229

Budget, Statement of Minister of Finance-Conr'd
For-est die back. 590
Funding interest groups. 328
GDR. 330
GST. 210
"~Greening-" a budget. 589. 592
Harmonization, 210
Helicopter program. 209. 210, 539
lndividuality. 264, 427
Industrial strategy. 373
Inflation rate. 427
Infrastructure Program. 369
lnterest rates. 369. 428
International competitiveness. 210
International Year of the Family. 560
Jobs. 231
Leaded petrol taxes, 590
Military bases. 539
National debt. 562. 563
National debt management plan. 539
Nationalism. 261. 262. 264. 265
-~Open-' and '-closed- society. 263, 264
Pearson International Airport. 210
Price stability. 373
Quebec nationalisrn. 264. 265
Recession. 230
Refund system. 591
Regionalisrn. 427
Regulatory policy. 373
Research and development. 230. 231
Roil-back in payroll taxes. 329
Smai! business. 230. 369. 538
Spending restraint. 209
Subsidy programs tor business. 330
Sweden. 589
Tax force, mandate. 589. 592
Tax increase. 538
Tourist industry. 370
Trade policy. 373
Underground economy. 210. 229
Unemployment. 230. 370. 371
Unemployment insurance. 229. 370. 371. 372
Unemployment rate. 208. 209
United Nations. 561
Young people. 231. 232
Youth unemployment. 561, 562
Speakers: Senators
Berntson. Eric Arthur. 244
Bolduc, Roch. 266. 373-75
Frith. Royce. 210. 266
Gigantès. Philippe Deane. 211
Gratstein, ierahmiel S.. 261-65, 266
Graham. B. Alasdair. 229-32
Kelly. William M.. 328-31
Lynch-Staunton. John. 246
Murray. Lowcll. 208-1l. 245. 265
Nolin. Pierre Claude. 560-64
OIson. H.A.. 244, 245-46
Phillips. Orville H.. 132. 369-70. 371
Roberge. Fernand, 537-40
Robertson. Brenda M.. 371-73
Simard. Jean-Maurice, 260-6!
Stratton. Terry. 427-28

Buffalo and Fort Erie Public Bridge Company-Cont 'd
Borrowing power, 1719
Gateways Projeet. 1719
Peace Bridge. 1719
Transfer of administrative responsibility. 1719
Speakers: Senators
Kennv. Colin. 1719
Oliver. Donald H.. 1719

Budgetary savings for regional development agencies, tabled. 2092

Cabinet, Lîberal election promises on reductin in size. eovernmcnt
position. (lu. 17017 )8

Buffalo and Fort Erie P>ublic Bridge Conmpany amendment
bi!! ('81. Ir. 1681): 2r. 1719: ici io coin. 1719:
r'Ci \s ithoLut Wmdt. 1774: 3r. 1774-7î: la.chap. 1-4.1995.
I794

Campbell, the late Hon. Douglas L., tributc. 1673

Bujold, Don J., National Secretary-Treasurer, Transportation
Communications Union
Transport. measure to terminale railway strike. considered in
Committee of the Whole. 1422-24. 1425-26. 1427
Business Development Bank of Canada bill C-91. Ir, 1917;
2r, 1942-44:, ret to com. 1944: rep without amdt. 1980:
3r, 1995-96; r.a., chap. 28. 1995, 2(056
Bank loans. 1943
Community Business Initiatives. 1943
Crown corporation's mission. 1942
New name. 1944
Smail businesses. 1942
See Journals of the Senate
Speakers: Senators
Berntson. Eric Arthur, 1944
Bosa. Peter. 1942-44, 1995
Graham. B. Alasdair. 1980
Sylvain, John. 1980. 1995-96
Business of the Senate, 41. 63-64. 78. 138-39. 2-02. 207-08, 239-40.
275. 281-82, 298. 37962. 478-79, 483-84. 510, 541. 556.
651-52. 739, 800, 836-37. 837. 844. 868. 877. 882. 935.
1010. 1075. 1081, 1150. 1177. 1270. 1294. 1368-69,
1369-70. 138 1. 1421, 1428. 1476. 1595, 1672. 1673.
1723. 1772. 19I9. 1951-53. 1962-63, 1969, 2(037.
2(065-66. 2129. 2177, 2312. 2345. 2432. 2444. 2458.
2483. 2498. 2537. 2546. 2549. 2559. 2599. 2605. 2632
Adjournmrent. 25. 75. 103-04. 173. 249-50. 511, 584-85. 679-81,
687. 763-65, 845. 866-67. 9001-01, 911. 933, 984. 994
1038. 1057. I084. 1334, 1529. 1584. 1632. 1676-77,
1775-76. 1916. 1975, 2056. 2189-90. 2229-30. 2536
Motion stands. 2174-76
Authorîty for committees to meet during adjourniments of
the Senate. 183-84
Budgets of committees. 395
Complaint on translation of speech. 1856
Configuation of Order Paper. 2435
Delay in delivery of officiai documents. 2433
Inquiries Nos. 17 and 18 reinstated notwithstanding Rule 28(3). 912
Inquiries Nos. 30 and 3 1 reînstated notwithstanding Rule 28(3).
1204
Motions respecting Buis C-69 and C-22, votes deterred. 2446
On presentation of petitions. 689
Order Paper questions. request for answers. qu. 1472-73
Points of order. 2371-72
ProposaI to establisb commîttee to investigate orders of reference.
govemment position. qu. 955
Proposed agenda. 9
Report of Legal and Constitutional Affairs Commîttee on firearms
legisiation. votes on amendiments. request for advice on
procedure. qu. 2269-70
Select committees authorized to meet during adjouroiments of
the Senate. 203
Speaker's ruling. 932

Camus. Alhert. acceptccl prononciation ofl ainil\ naine. si. 651.
652-53. 853-55

INDEX
Canada Assistance Plan
Removal of programs from block funding to provinces, govemment
position, qu, 1805
Canada Assistance Plan and established programs financing, levels
of entitlement and further details, tabled, 1843
Canada Business Corporations amendment bill C-12. Ir, 640;
2r, 673-75; ref to com, 675; rep without amdt. 686;
3r, 728; r.a.. chap. 24, 1994, 773
Audit of financial statements, 674
Dissolving a corporation, 674, 675
Electronic filing, 674
Elimination of public financial disclosure requirements, 674, 675
Exemption from filing documents, 674
Keeping official documents. 675
Parliamentary review, 674
Retention of accounting records and files, 674
Small and medium-sized businesses, 673
Speakers: Senators
Grimard, Normand, 675
Kirby, Michael, 673-75
Canada-China relations
Diplomatic representations to China on sixth anniversary of
Tiananmen Square massacre, request for information,
qu, 1691
Human rights and commercial relations, government policy.
qu, 1691-92, (r) 2154-55
Human rights in China and Tibet, m, 1297-98, 1483-84, 1562-63,
1670-72, 1793
Speakers: Senators
Kinsella, Noël A., 1672
Murray, Lowell, 1672
Perrault, Raymond J., 1671-72
Protest over granting of visa to Taiwanese official, government
position, qu, 1691, (r) 2047
Representations on human rights abuses, government position,
qu, 238, (r) 455
Representations on human rights abuses in China and Tibet,
presentation of petition, 880-81
Trade in goods manufactured in labour camps, government policy,
qu, 2112-13, (r) 2558
Validity of statement on freedom of religion in Tibet, government
position, qu, 1692, (r) 2153-54
Visit to Canada of Chinese Premier, raising of human rights issues,
government position, qu, 2112
See also China-Canada relations
Canada Council
Closure of Art Bank
Government position, qu, 1534, (r) 1600-01
Request for answer, 1589
Possibility of reversing decision, st, 1835
Prior consultations with minister, government position,
qu, 1960-61
St, 1886
Future of Art Bank, st, 2315

Reduction of staff in Atlantic Region, effect on programs.
govemment position, qu, 1635, (r) 1694-95
Royal Winnipeg Ballet. loss of student grants due to budget cuts,
possibility of alternate funding, government position,
qu, 1895. (r) 2049-50
Canada Council, closure of Art Bank, inquiry. 1761; revised, 1782,
1828-32, 1974-75
Arts Council. 1830
Mandate, 1829
Purchasing back art. 1832

Canada Council, closure of Art Bank-Cont'd
Speakers: Senators
Carney, Pat, 1832
Corbin. Eymard G., 1828-32
De Bané, Pierre, 1974-75
Canada Council, consultations on the future of the Council, inquiry,
1165, 1195-98. 1232-33
Arts and culture, 1195, 1196
Budget of Canada Council, 1198
Canada Council, 1197, 1198
Culture, 1196
Deficit, 1197
Private sector. 1197
Response to question, 1204
Self censorship, 1233
Spending cuts, 1198
Speakers: Senators
Kinsella. Noël A., 1198
Lynch-Staunton, John, 1233
Roux, Jean-Louis, 1165, 1195-98. 1204, 1233
Canada-Europe Parliamentary Association
Council of Europe Committee on Economic Affairs and
Development, Paris and Strasbourg, France, report of
Canadian Delegation tabled, 2265
Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly, Strasbourg, France,
report of Canadian Delegation tabled, 2265
Report of Canadian delegation tabled, 397
Canada-France Inter-Parliamentary Association
Meeting held in Paris, report of Canadian Delegation tabled, 2110
Twenty-fifth Annual Meeting, report of Canadian Delegation
tabled, 880
Canada Grain amendment bill C-51. Ir. 1131; 2r. 1136-38: ref to com,
1138; rep without amdt, 1162; 3r, 1163; r.a., chap. 45,
1994, 1177
Agri-industry, 1136
Canadian Grain Commission, 1136, 1137, 1138
Competitiveness, 1137
Drying of grain, 1137
Elevator tariffs, 1137
Farmers, 1137, 1138
Free trade, 1138
Grain quality, 1137
Process elevators, 1137
Protection for producers, 1137
Safeguards for taxpayers, 1137
Speakers: Senators
Carstairs, Sharon, 1136-38
Gustafson. Leonard J., 1138
Canada Health and Social Transfer, effect on spending of provincial
governments, govemment position, qu, 1634-35
Canada-Japan Inter-Parliamentary Group
Fifth Annual Meeting held in Vancouver, report of Canadian
delegation tabled, 1011
Report of Second Annual Meeting of the Asia Pacific Parliamentary
Forum tabled, 78
Report of Third Annual Meeting of Asia Pacific Parliamentary
Forum tabled, 1182
Sixth Annual Meeting held in Tokyo and Osaka, Japan. report of
Canadian Delegation tabled, 2110
Canada-Newfoundland Cooperation Agreement for Forestry
Development, tabled, 188

Canada Oji and Gas Operations, Canada Petroleum Resources,
National Energy Board amendment bill C-6. Ir. 353;
2r, 3808
81: ref to com. 38 1; rep without amdt. 420:
3r,.437-38:r.na., chap. 10, 1994. 478
Canada Oul and Gas Lands Administration, dissolution. 380
Consultations, 437
Environment. protection. 437
Federal authorities. restructurin.g. 437
Frontier oul and gas. 437
Offshore areas. 437
Pipelines. 380
Speakers: Senators
Ghitter. Ron. 380-81
Hays. Dan. 437-38
Kenny. Colin. 380
Canada 125, breakdown of distribution of medals. tabled. 852
Canada Pension Commission, exceptional incapacity allowance.
tabled. 202
Canada Petroleum Resources amendment bill C-25. Ir. 846;
2r, 846-47; ret com, 848; rep wîthout amdt. 87 1; 3r, 87 1;
r.a.. chap. 36, 1994. 989
Competitive bidding process. 847
Employment. 846. 847
Land dlaims. 846
Norman Wells, 846. 847
Royalties. 847
Speakers: Senators
Ghitter. Ron. 847
Kenny. Colin. 846-47
Lynch-Staunton. John. 846
Molgat. Gildas L., 845-46
Canada Post Corporation, review by Price Waterhouse of contracts
in Sydney, Nova Scotia, request for particulars,
tabled. 2493
Canada Post Corporation, tabled. 2177
Delay in delivery of mail, government position. qu. 2168
Extension of contc on leases, request for information on members
of consortium. qu. 1983. 2010. (r) 2115
Lease of premises in Sydney, Nova Scotia. intervention of Mînîster
of Public Works. qu. 1982-83, (r) 2083
Request for an swer. 20 10
See appendix p. 2084
Canada Remembers, si, 1570. 1614-15
Fiftieth anniversary of D-Day. st, 576-83
Caiwda's Armntd Forces, st. 1371
Canada's Defence Policy, Special Joint Committee
Authority to change date of presentation ot final report. 728;
message from Commons. 783
Message from Commons. 149;. m to appoint adopîed. 149-56
Report
1st, presented and adopted. 159-60
Report entitled "Security in a Changing World". tabled. 911. 937-40,
989-90. 1077-81, 1089-92, 1099-1104. 1116-24.
1141-43
Aerospace iîndusîry. 110 1
Air foi-ce. 1090. 1103
Balance of posser. 1078. 1101
Cis ilian emnplo\ ces. Il2(0
Cooperation. 1i17
~~Cornwsallis conicept". 1142
Cultur ai policy . 1117
Cuis to headquiaiei- stah'. 11l

Canada's Defence Policy, Special Joint Committee-Con; 'd
Report entitled "Security in a Changing Woi-1d"-Coii'd
Defence budget. 1091, 1092, 1104.,1123
Defence conversion. Il118
Defence exports. 110 1
Defence spending. 1103
Military equipment. 1090
Military weapons, Il118
Militia. 1122
NATO, 1078, 1100
National Defence White Paper, 1099. 1101. 1102, 1118. 1119.
1120. II2I.I12.1II23
Navy, 1090
Non-governmental organizations. Il117
Peacekeepin.g, 1142
Process of joint committee. 1142. 1143
Reducuion of forces. 1120
Reserves. 1080. 1090, 112L. 1122, 1123
Security threats. 1102
Ship-bome search and rescue helicopters. 1142-43
Submarines. 1121
Subsidîzing regional development. 1104
Terntorial sovereignty. 1103
Training, 1116. 1122
Voluntary community service. Il116
Weapons acquisition. Il117
Youth Training and Education Program. 1122
Speakers: Senators
Bolduc. Roch. 1089-90. 1091. 1092
De Bané. Pierre. 937-40
Forrestall. J. Michael. 940. 1142-43
Gigantes. Philippe Deane. 990, 1080. 1091. 1092, 1118,
1123, 1124
Graftein. Jerahmiel S.. 1077-80. 1081
Kenny. Colin. 1080. 1090. 1091. 1102-04
Meighen. Michael A.. Il 18-23. 1124
Roux. Jean-Louis. Il11618
Sylvain, John. 1099-1102
Canada's Foreign Policy
See Reviewing Canada's Foreign Policy
Canada's presence and influence in Europe, si. 1485
Canada Student Financial Assistance bill C-28. Ir. 687: 2r. 705-14;
ref to com. 715; rep wîthout amdî. 743; 3r, 743;
r.a.. chap. 28. 1994. 773
Access to loans. 710. 711
Aduit students. 714
Alternative payment formula. 706
Appeal mechanism. 709
Canada Student Loans Program. 705. 706. 707, 708. 709. 710.
711, 712.,713
Ceiling on costs. 709
Cost of atîending university. 711
Designation of appropriate authority. 708
Disadvantaged students, 706
Eligibility requirements. 708. 709
Federal and provincial governiments. 706. 714
Financial need. 709
Freeze on loan amounts. 706
lmplementation date. 712
Income-based boan repayment. 706. 713
Increases in tuition fees. 713
Lending institutions. 7 13
Loan collection. 7 10
Loan Luaranie'. 706
Nceds assessnient mcithod. 706
Po\s ol lendi nl- iins;tii tion. 7 10(
Pisa
.709
Pirovi ncial cpi ingou i clause. 706. 707

INDEX
Canada Student Financial Assistance bill C-28-Cont 'd
Repayment conditions, 706
Repayment scheme. 710, 711
Scholastic standards, 708
Student debt. 711, 713, 714
Speakers: Senators
Beaudoin, Gérald-A., 707
Cochrane, Ethel, 712-14
Gigantès. Philippe Deane, 705-07. 712
Kinsella, Noël A.. 707-12
MacDonald, Finlay, 712
Robertson, Brenda M., 712
Stanbury. Richard J., 743

Canada-United States Free Trade Agreement, grains, breakdown in
trade relations, governiment position, qu, 502-03. (r) 1088

Canada-United States Interparliamentary Group
Thirty-fifth Annual Meeting held in Santa Fe. New Mexico,
report of Canadian section tabled. 688
Thirty-sixth Annual Meeting held in Huntsville, Ontario, report of
Canadian section tabled, 1801, inquiry, 1802, 2051-52

Canadian Association of Lutheran Congregations-Coi'd
See Journals of the Senate
Speakers: Senators
Gigantès, Philippe Deane. 404
Oison, H.A.. 403-04. 606. 607

Canadian Association of Lutheran Congregations, presentation
of petition. 250

Canadian Broadcasting Corporation
Annual report 1993/94. production costs. tabled, 1070
Evaluation of operations of corporation, qu, 252. (r) 325
Felicitations on the appointment of Hon. Perrin Beatty, P.C.. as
President and CEO. st. 1499
National Film Board, Telefilm Canada. commissioning of
production of war films. tabled, 1191
Pamela Wallin, cancellation of contract for Prime Tinie Newvs
Magazine. st, 1528
Youth criminality, congratulations on recent production, st, 2607-08

Canadian Citizensbip Week,

st, 301

Canadian Coast Guard, search and rescue operations. state of
Canada-United States relations, proposed imposition of U.S.

helicopter fleet, 45

border-crossing tax, governlnent position, qu, 1183

1824;
Canadian Dairy Commission amendment bill C-86. Ir,
Canada-United States Tax Convention amendment bill S-9. Ir, 1373;
2r, 1458-60; ref to com. 1460; rep without anidt. 1547;
3r. 1574; message from Commons that bill passed
without amndt, 2133; r.a.. chap. 34, 1995, 2240
Arbitration mechanism. 1459
Charitable organizations. 1459
Collection of taxes, 1459
Double taxation. 1458
Social security payments, 1459
U.S. estate taxes, 1459
Withholding tax, 1458. 1459
Speakers: Senators
Bemntson, Eric Arthur, 1460
Kirby. Michael, 1458-60

Canada Wildlife amendmient bill C-24. Ir, 628; 2r, 702-04-. ref to coin,
704; rep without amdt, 726; 3r, 727; r.a., chap. 23. 1994,
773
Administration and enforcement, 703, 704
Canadian Cooperative Wildlife Health Centre, 703
Conservation. 704
Courts, 703
Definition of wildlife, 703, 704
National wildlife areas. 703
Natural wildlife areas, 702
Penalties. 703, 704
Protected areas beyond territorial sea, 703, 704
Recovery of Nationally Endangered Wildlife, 702
Wildlife conservation, 702
Speakers: Senators
Kenny. Colin. 702-03
Spivak. Mira, 704

Canadian Association of Lutheran Congregations incorporation
bill S-5. Ir. 273;- 2r, 403-04; ref to com. 404; rep without
amdt. 548, adopted. 588z m in amdt. 606-07; 3r. 607:
message from Commons that bill passed without amdt.
650: r.a.. 664
Federal charters. 404
Funictions of organization. 403
Lutheranisni in Canada, 403

2r, 1882-83; ref to com. t1883; rep without amdt, 1923;
3r, 1923; r.a., chap. 23, 1995. 2056
Exporting dairy products to U.S., 1882
GATT-WTO agreement, 1882
Levy system.i 1882, 1883
NAFTA, 1882
Speakers: Senators
Hays, Dan. 1882
Rossiter, Eileen. 1883

Canadian Environmental Assessment amendment bill C-56.
Ir, 1131; 2r. 1138-41; ref to com, 1141, rep witbout amdt,
1163-,3r, 1163; r.a., chap. 46. 1994, 1177
Authority of new agency, 1141
Cabinet response 10 panel recommendations, 1139
Intervenor funding, 1140
"One projeet. one assessment"', 1139
Public participation, 1139, 1140
Use of previous environmental assessment work. 1140
Speakers: Senators
Kenny, Colin, 1138-39
Spivak, Mira, il139-41

Canadian Film Development Corporation amendment bill C-31.
Ir, 649-50; 2r, 658-62; ref to com, 662; rep without amdt.
686; 3r, 729; r.a., chap. 25, t1994, 773
American film makers, 660
lnvestment bankers, 659
Loan guarantees, 659, 660
Provinces' role of counterpoint, 660
Tax breaks, 661
Telefilm Canada, 659
Venture capital. 660
Speakers: Senators
Berntson. Eric Arthur, 662
Doody. C. William. 660, 662
Frith. Royce. 658-60. 661-62
Keon. Wilbert L. 660-61
MacDonald. Finlay. 660
Nolin. Pierre Claude. 661. 662
Pbillips. Orville H.. 661
Stanbur. Richard J.. 662

Canadian forces reserves, unemployment insurance amendments,
tabled. 360
Canadian Heritage
Abolition of Art Bank, role of mînîster. qu. 1762. (r) 2076
Actions of Film Review Board on adult films. government position.
qu. 1452, (r) 1693-94
Canadian Broadcasting Corporation. cancellation of contract of
Pamela WaIlin with Primie ime Neiws Magaiune.
govemment position. qu. 1531
Catalogue of national sports events. failure to publish in French.
governmenî position, qu. 1841-42, (r) 2080
Expo 2005. report of independent evaluators. decision based on
politics or menit. government position. qu. 1521-22,
(r) 1600
Government documents tabled unilingually. infraction of polîcy on
officiai languages. government position. qu. 1892-94
Responsibilities in relation to Canadian veterans and war memorials.
tabled. 1206
Canadian Human Rights Act, opposition to amendment. presentation
of petition. 1713
Canadian International Development Agency, filling of vacant
positions without competition, governiment position.
qu. 2269
CN Commercialization bill C-89. Ir, 1838:, 2r, 1914-16; ret to com.
1916:. rep without amdt. 1922: 3r. 1929- 31; r.a.. chap. 24,
1995. 2056
Atlantic Canada. 1930-31
Buying shares. 1914. 1915
Speakers: Senators
De Bane. Pienre, 1914-15
Forrestaîl. J. Michael. 1915-16, 1929
Graham. B. Alasdaîr. 1929
Robertson, Brenda M.. 1930-31
Canadian National Exhibition, Lliqqusîvut. Inuit Spirit of' the
Arctic Pavilion. st, 1773
Canadian NATO Parliamentary Association
North Atlantic Assembly
Report of Canadian Delegation tabled. 2166
Report of Canadian Delegation to annual session tabled. 2264
Report of annual committee meeting in North America. tabled. 2068
Report of 1995 spring session tabled. 1890
Canadian Race Relations Foundation, particulars on establishment,
tabled, 1695
Canadian Radjo-television and Telecommunications Commission
Cable service to French-speaking communities. st, 599
Increase in local telephone rates, government position. qu. 2167
Issuance of specialty cable licences. st. 665
Canadian Unity, Special Senate Committee
Motion to establish. 2556-57
Canadian War Museum
Termination of employment of veterans. st. 2554-55
Canadian Wheat Board
Expansion ot powers. presentation of petitions. 1165
Presentation of petitions. Il182
Canadian Wheat Board amendment bill C-50. Ir. 912: 2r, 935-36:
ici to cern. 930: rep without amndt. 983: 3t. 987:
na-. chap. 39. 1994, 989
Check otîs. 935. 936

Canadian Wheat Board amendment bill C-50---Coit'd
Competition in international market. 936
Field performance. 935
Levies. 936
Plant breeding and research, 936
Research and development, 936
Specific qualities. 935
Speakers: Senators
Gustafson. Leonard J., 936
Oison, H.A., 935-36
Canadian Wheat Board amendment bill C-92. I r, 1924: 2r, 1945-47;
ref to com. 1947: rep without amdt. 1978: 3r, 2019;
r.a.. chap. 31, 1995. 2057
Freight costs. 1945
Pooiing points. 1946. 1947
Speakers: Senators
Gustafson. Leonard J., 1947
Hays. Dan. 1945-47
Carney, P.C., Hon. Pat
Alternative Fuels for Internai Combustion Engines bill S-7. m for
concurrence in Commons amendments. 1834
Banking, Trade and Commerce Cummittee report
26th. Excise Tax. Income Tax amendment bill C- 103, 2498
Budget
I nternational Space Station Program. status of Canada's
commitment, government position. qu. 163. (r) 221-22
Military and tunding cut-backs. effect on employment. qu. 134,
135
R & D cut-backs, effect on British Columbia. qu. 135
Business of the Senate. 202
Adjournment. 1775
Canada Councîl. closure of Art Bank, inquiry. 1832
Purchasing back ant. 1832
Communications. Radio Canada International. possibiliîy of
alternative funding. government position. qu. 2493
Constitutional ameodments bill C- 110. 2523-27
British Columbia. 2523-27
Constitutional Amendments bill C- 110, Special Senate Commitîc
report. 2573-75
Crown Liability and Proceedings amendment bill C-4, 402-03
Americas free trade agreement, 403
North American Agreement on Environmental Cooperation. 403
North Amerîcan Agreement on Labour Cooperation. 403
Panel determination. 402
Side agreements. 402, 403
Customs, Canadian pilots, clearance procedures ai Mirabel Airport,
qu. 914, (r) 1187-88
Delayed answers to oral questions, 1588
Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Suspension bill. 1994
British Columbia, concerns of constituents. st. 393-94
Constîtuencies, provinces. and municipalities. process of
consultation, government position. qu. 358-59
Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Suspension. 1994 bill C-18,
339-41. 347-38
British Columbia, 339, 340
Equality of voting power, 339
Redistribution. 347
Role of Senate. 341
Energy. the Environment and Natural Resources Committee
Authority to engage services and to travel. 353
Authority to monitor matters related to the federal environmental
assessment process. 110, 157
Globe 94 Conterence. Wilderness Vision Colloquium. North
Anmerican Natuîal Gas Contereoce. reports of
comînittee tabled. 727
Jobs and the ens'iionmeni. authorîty io conduct sîuclv 353-54
National protccted areas studv
Authority to conduci siudy. 353
Motion to exiend date ot 1maI ireporti. 2462

INDEX
Carstairs, Hon. Sharon-Cont 'd
Camney, P.C., Hon. Pat-Coin 'd
Budget 1995-Conr'd
Reports
Faimess. 1305
I st. tabled. 78
Family violence. 1306
2nd. Canada Oil and Gas Operations, Canada Petroleum
Western Grain Transportation Agency. 1306
Resources. National Energy Board amendment bill C-6,
420
Canada Grain arnendment bill C-51. 1136-38, 1163
4th. Migratory Birds Convention. 1994 bill C-23. without amdt.
Agri-industry. 1136
726
Canadian Grain Commission. 1136. 1137, 1138
Sth. Canada Wildlife amendment bill C-24. without amdt.
Competitiveness. 1137
7267th. National Protected Areas Strategy. report of
Drying of grain, 1137
Elevator tariffs. 1137
comnmittee tabled. 993Strategy, extension of final report
Areas
8th. National Protected
Farmers. 1137
date. 993-94
Grain quality. 1137
lOth. Canadian Environmental Assessment bill C-56. 1163
Process elevators. 1137
I2th. National Protected Areas Strategy, extension of final report
Protection for producers. 1137
date. 1546-47, adopted, 1590
Safeguards for taxpayers. 1137
l3th. Ensitled "Report of the Committee's Fact-Finding Mission
Constitutional Amendments bill C- 110. Special Senate Committee
to Washington. D.C., Match 6-9. 1995", tabled. 1760
report. 2567-70
l4th. Travel to British Columbia. National Protected Areas
Desmarais, the late Hon. Jean Noël, tribute. 2062
Strategay, tabled. 1760
Electoral Boundaries Readjustment. 1995 bill C-69, 1555-58,
I Sth. Travel to Nova Scotia, National Protected Areas Strategy,
1731-33, 1735-, vote deferred on ri to adjourn debate,
tabled, 1760
I1848-49; point of order. 1899. 1900; m to refer question
I 6th. Alternative Fuels bill S-7, adopted. 1889
and message from Commons to com, 1967-68
See Journals of the Senate
Altemate maps. 1557
I9th. Auditor General amendment bill C-83, without amdt. 2461
Appointment of boundaries commissions. 1557
2Oth. National Protected Areas Strategy, tabled, 2608
Boundaries commissions, 1556
Environment. automation of weather stations. reliability of
Creation of ridings. 1557
technology. government position. qu. 1303. (r) 1986
Criteria in drawing boundaries, 1558
Fairbairn, PC.. Hon. Joyce, felicitations on appointment as first
Decennial redistributions. 1557
woman leader. st. 7, 8
Lortie Commission, 1555
Federal-provincial relations
Public hearings, 1557
Infrastructure Program, Hay Report, presentation of petition. 161
Gun control legislation, st. 2314-15
Public participation. 1557
Legal and Constitutional Affairs Committee report
Quinquennial readjustments, 1557
2nd, Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Suspension, 1994
Scrutiny by parliamentary comrnittee, 1558
bill C-18, 486, 491-94, 495. 497
24-month suspension. 1556
Lightstations, report of Ad Hoc Parliamentary Committee.
Employment equity bill C-64. 2496
inquiry. 1843
Euthanasia and Assisted Suicide Special Senate Committee,
Ministerial response to Senate Committee reports, inquiry, 2153.
Final Report. 1791-93
2222-26
Firearms bill C-68. 1811-14
Privilege, 1492
Aboriginal people, 1813
Transport
Family violence. 1812
Ad Hoc Parliamentary Committee on Lightstations
"Firearms possession certificates-, 1813
Consultations in British Columbia, st. 1037
Hunting and trapping. 1813
report tabled. 1837
Final
Penalties. 1811
Committee On Lightstations. consultations
Ad Hoc Parliamentary
Registration card, 1813
in British Columbia, inquiry. 1039. 1153-55. 1156
Registration process, 1813
Automated navigational and weather systemts. request for
Suicide. 1812
documentation. government position. qu, 1165,
Sustenance hunters, 1813
(r) 2070-71
Universal tirearms registry. 1811. 1812
Automated Weather Observation Systems. report of Senate
Health, commemoration of World AIDS Day. st. 1037-38
committee, request for response from ministers,
Humphrey. the late John Peter, tribute, 1449
qu. 2233. 2234
International Women's Day, st, 1296
Destaffing of lightstations in British Columbia, environmental
Johnson, late Dr. George. tribute. 1976
impact assessment. government position. qu. 1040,
Karla Homoîka bill S-il1, point of order. 2139
(r) 1189
Legal and Constitutional Affairs Committee
Transport and Communications Committee
Authority to meet during sittings of the Senate, 2006
Marine safety. m to expand role of ligbtstations, 211. 232. 233.
234
Motion instructing com to table final report re C-69,
Mandate, 233
2262. 2276-78
Staffing. 233
Motion instructing com to table final report re C-69. 2423.
Transport and communications, marine safety. Ad Hoc
point of order. 2426, mi(con't). 2429
Parliamentary Committee on Lightstations. st. 929
Notice of motion instructing com to table final report re C-69,
West Coast Ports Operations. 1994 bill C-hO. considered in
2370.,2377. 2379, 2392
Committee of the Whole. 69
Reports
l4th. Electoral Boundaries Readjustment. 1995 bill C-69.
rit and message from Commons. 2021. 2023-25
I6th. Firearms bill C-68. with 14 amdts. 2253-56, 2259, 2260.
Carstairs, Hon. Sharon (introduced in the Senate Oct.4/94). 838
2299. 2300
Budget 1995. Statement of Minister of Finance. inquiry. 1305-07
Aboriginal peoples. 2254. 22160
Air Command. 1305
Antique weapons. 2254
Child abuse. 1306

Carstairs, Hon. Sharon-Cont'd
Le-al and Constitutional Aflairs Comniittee-Coni'd
Confiscation without compensation. 2259
Mandatory minimum sentences. 2255
Minister of Justice regulatory powers. 2254. 2255
Museumns. 2254
Opting out clause. 2255
Registration. 2254
Safe storage regulations, 2300
Suicide. 2300
Violence. 2300
Member of Parliament. definition. st. 2381
Molg-at. Hon. Gildas L.. felicitations on appointment as
Speaker of the Senate. 949
National Child Day. st, 2243
Neiman. Hon. Joan. tribute on retîrement. 2040
Schizophrenia, st. 1544
South Africa. establishment of new parliamentary system, st. 1449
Split Lake Cree First Nation Flooded Land bill C-36, 940-43. 1058
Adjudication process. 942
Band-specific agreements. 942
Compensation. 942. 943
Land title. 942
Manitoba Northern Flood Agreement, 942. 943
Moneys administered by band trust funds. 942
Status of Women. twenty-fifth anniversary of tablîng of report
of Royal Commission. st. 2090
Carter, the late Hon. Chesley William, tributes. 77, 91

Chemical Weapons Convention Implementation bill C-87. Ini 1801;:
2r. 1873-78:, ief to com. 1878: rep without amndt. 1923:
3r. 1931-32: r.a.. chap. 25. 1995. 2056
Convention. 1874. 1875
Global chemical weapons ban. 1874
"~Killing century". 1873
Middle East. 1877, 1878
Speakers: Senators
Andreychuk. A. Raynell. 1931-32
Grafstein. Jerahmiel S.. 1873-75
Graham. B. Alasdair. 1931
Kelly. William M.. 1875-76
Prud'homme. Marcel, 1876-78
Child abuse and mortality, inquiry. 2010, 2219-22
Speaker: SenatorCools. Anne C.. 2219-22
Child abuse and neglect, deatb of Matthew Vaudreuil. inquiry. 2382
Speaker: SenatorCools. Anne C.. 2382
China-Canada relations, human rig-hts issues. government position.
st. 247
China, human rights and commercial relations
Government policy. qu. 601-02
Government position. qu. 553, 604-05. (r) 835-36
Christmas Greetings, st. Il157-58. Il178. 2546. 2549

Celebration of Christmas in Canada, inquiry. 1057, 1127-29
"~Christmas iconography-. Il28
"~Multculturalisation". 1127
Political correctness. Il 28
Respect. 1127
Speaker: Senator
Kelly. William M.. 1057. 1127-29
See also Christmas. way 0f celebration in Canada

Christmas, way of celebration in Canada. inquiry. 42: wîtbdrawn. 331
Speaker: Senator
Kelly. William M.. 42. 331

Certitied General Accountants' Association bill S-8. I r. 1210;
2r, 1258, 1293; ret to com. 1293
French counterpart for English name. 1258
Speakers: Senators
Bemntson. Eric Arthur, 1293
Kirby. Michael. 1258

Citizenship and Immigration Canada, tabled. 2083

Certified General Accountants' Association of Canada, presentation
of petition. 1204
Chamibers, the late Hon. Egan
Tributes. 434
Chaput-Rolland, Hon. Solange (retired May 14/95)
National detence. closure of St-Jean military college. st. 131
Tributes on retirement. 412-20
Charbonneau, Hon. Guy
ASEAN lnter-Parliamentary Organîzation. fourteenth General
Assembly. report tabled. 42
Camius. Albert. accepted prononciation 0f faimily namie. 653
Canada Remieieis. fiftieth anniversary of D-Day., qt. 578
I eBlaI PC.. Hon. Roméo. congratu ilatioils ou h is appointmieni ais
m.
Governor Gencial of Canada. 983
[MoI.,at. Hon. Gildas L.. congr atuilaitions on bis appointnmenî as
Speaker 0f the Senaite. 983
National dcl encc. St-Jean M ilitary Col lce.e pi oposed closuic. st. 21I4

Citizenship and immigration
Lîteracy courses ohfered in French language, st. 1570-71
Rex iew of refugee status claimants. glovernment position. qu. 501,
(r) 833-34

Citizenship, conferral of Citation upon Yude Hentelefi. Q.C.. st. 1335
City of Winnipeg, tribute to Susan Thompson on re-election as Mayor.
st. 2165
Cii Justice Review, inquiry, 1890-91, 2052-56
Speaker: Senator
Cools. Anne C.. 1890-91, 2052-56
Clerk of the Senate
Annual Report for 1992-93 tabled. 22
Appoîntment of Gordon Barnhart. Esq. as honorary officer of the
Senate. felîcitations. 178-81
Appointment of Paul C. Bélisle, Esq.. felicitations. 178-81
Commission issued to Paul C. Bélisle. Esq., 360
Statements of receipts and disbursements tabled. 22. 880. 2 152
Ref to com. 25. 880. 2152
Clerk's accounts
See Clerk of the Senate. Statements of receipts and disbursements
Clinton, William j., President of the UJnited States of America
Address to botb bouses. 1995. printed as appendix. 1248
.See appendis p. 1271I
('oasf aI Fisheries P>rotection Act
Ainendnients to iuatostabled. 547
Protection and nmana.-eînent ot'sti-iadd iing stoc ks. t:ibled. 852

INDEX
Coastal Fisheries Protection amendment bill C-29. Ir, 451;
2r, 457-62; ref to committee of the Whole, 462;
considered in Committee of the Whole. Hon. Earl A.
Hastings in the Chair, Hon. André Ouellet, Minister of
Foreign Affairs and Hon. Brian Tobin, Minister of
Fisheries and Oceans taking part in the debate. 462-75;
rep without amdt, 476; 3r. 476; r.a., chap. 14, 1994, 478
Conservation, 458
Environmental conditions. 457
Fisheries surveillance, 461
Fishing zone 3N, 459
Flags of convenience, 458, 459, 460
Helicopters, 461
International cooperation, 458
Northwest Atlantic Fisheries Organization (NAFO), 457, 458, 460
Overfishing, 458, 459. 460
Penalties, 461
Quotas, 457, 461
Stateless vessels, 458
Straddling stocks, 458, 459
200-mile zone, 461
See appendix p. 480
Speakers: Senators
Buchanan, John, 460
Comeau, Gerald J., 459-60
Frith. Royce, 451. 452
Grafstein. Jerahmiel S., 459. 460
Hastings, Earl A., 457
Lynch-Staunton, John. 452
Marshall, Jack, 461-62
Molgat, Gildas L., 451. 460
Petten, William J.. 452, 457-59
Prud'homme, Marcel, 452
Rossiter, Eileen. 461
Stewart. John B.. 459
Thériault, L. Norbert, 460-61
In Comnittee of the Whole, 462-75
Andreychuk, A. Raynell, 474, 475
Beaudoin, Gérald-A., 463
Comeau, Gerald J., 470
Fairbairn, Joyce. 462
Grafstein, Jerahmiel S., 471
Jessiman, Duncan J., 468, 469
Kinsella. Noël A., 465
Lynch-Staunton, John, 462-63, 465, 466, 467, 472. 475
Marshall, Jack, 473
Molgat, Gildas L., 462
Nolin, Pierre Claude, 473
Ouellet, Hon. André, Minister of Foreign Affairs, 463
Petten, William J.. 475
Phillips. Orville H., 469, 470
Prud'homme, Marcel, 467-68
St. Germain, Gerry. 463, 464. 465
Stewart, John B., 471. 472, 473
Thériault, L. Norbert, 473
Tobin, Hon. Brian, Minister of Fisheries and Oceans, 463-64,
465-66, 467, 468, 469. 470, 471, 472. 473, 474-75

Cochrane, Hon. Ethel-Cont'd
Budget Implementation. 1995-Cont'd
Canada Scholarship Program. 1764
Funding for universities and colleges. 1764
Post-secondary education, 1763, 1764
Student debt load, 1764
Canada Health and Social Transfer, effect on spending of provincial
governments, government position, qu, 1634-35
Canada Student Financial Assistance bill C-28, 712-14
Adult students, 714
Canada Student Loans Program, 712, 713
Federal and provincial funding, 714
Income-contingent repayment, 713
Lending institutions, 713
Student debt, 713, 714
Human resources development, National Literacy Secretariat,
importance of program continuity and volunteer
participation, government position, qu, 1214
Literacy
"Making Scenes Between the Lines" pamphlet, targeted adult
market, govemment position, qu, 1894
Request for kits for senators, qu, 1895
National Child Day, st, 2243
National finance, reduction in post-secondary education financing,
qu, 667, (r) 851
Post-secondary education
Canada Scholarships Program, effect of cuts, possibility of
replacement, government position. qu, 1341, (r) 1588
Canada Student Loans Program, impact on federal funding,
government position, qu, 605, (r) 835
Effect of cuts to social transfer payments on university enrolment,
qu, 1683. (r) 1990-91
Effects of withdrawal of federal funding, government position.
qu. 333
Financing arrangements for student loans, government policy,
qu, 333, (r) 424
Growth in revenue from EPF transfers tax points, possibility of
transfer to institutions, qu, 934-35, (r) 1377-78
Increases in university tuition fees in Newfoundland, government
position, 1532, (r) 1589
Reinstatement or replacement of Canada Scholarships Fund,
government position, qu, 1683-84
Poverty in Canada, document tabled, 784
Rowe, the late Hon. Frederick George, tribute, 684
Youth
Employment and training, student summer employment program,
qu, 355, (r) 504-05
Employment programs, government position, qu, 504, (r) 765
Funding of training initiatives, govemment position. qu, 356
Code of Conduct, Special Joint Committee
Appointment, 1800-01, 1883-84 1954-55. adopted, 1969-70
Membership, 1981-82, adopted, 1996-97
Message from Commons, 1798
Reports
Ist, extension of report deadline, 2067. adopted, 2115
2nd, name of Committee in French changed. 2416, adoptd, 2483

Cohen, Hon. Erminie J.
Cochrane, Hon. Ethel
Budget
Private pension income, possible elimination of tax credit,
consultation with senior citizens, qu, 1239
Threshold for clawbacks. consultations with senior citizens,
qu, 1238-39
Budget Implementation bill. 1995. federal-provincial negotiations to
establish standards for health and social transfers.
qu. 1635
Budget Implementation. 1995 bill C-76. 1763-65
Adult students. 1764
Canada Health and Social Transfer. 1763. 1764

Atlantic Canada Opportunities Agency
Future of agency
Government position. qu, 238
Objectives and scope of govemment review, qu. 252, (r) 423
Grants to projects in New Brunswick. government position.
qu, 452, (r) 556
Budget, elimination of tax breaks for health and dental plans.
government position. qu. 1110
Budget Implementation. 1994 amendment bill C-17, 533-35
Atlantic Canada. 533
Child care, 534
Freight subsidies. 533. 534

Cohen, Hon. Erminie J.-Cotnt'd
Budget Implementation, 1994-Cont'd
Transfer payments. 534
Unemployment insurance, 534, 535
Budget 1995, Statement of Minister of Finance, inquiry. 1309-1 l
Atlantic Canada. 1310, 1311
Fairness. 1310
Freight subsidies. 1310
National deficit-reduction strategy, 1309
Transfer payments. 1310
Transportation Adjustment Program, 1310
Correctional service, use of male emergency response team to
strip-search inmates at Kingston prison for women.
government position, st, 1236
Criminal Code amendment (dangerous intoxication) bill S-6,

1012-14
Abortion, 1013
Infanticide. 1013
Prostitution, 1013
Sexual assault, 1013
"Sixteen Days of Activism Against Gender Violence", 1012
Spousal abuse, 1013
Supreme Court rulings. 1012, 1013
Violence against women. 1012
Women as victims, 1013
Zero tolerance. 1012
Energy, Hibernia Project, contract with Saint John shipyard, st, 1038
Family violence, comments made by Senator Cools on International
Women's Day, st, 1337-38
Health
Controlled drugs and substances bill, required amendments,
government position, qu, 2118-19
Impact of thyroid disease in Canada, inquiry. 1689, 1756-58
Graves' Disease, 1757, 1758
Public profile. 1756
Thyroid Foundation of Canada. 1756, 1757, 1758
Thyroid malfunction. 1758
Possibility of taxation on dental insurance plans. st, 983
Human resources development, violence against women. importance
of literacy, government position, qu, 1186
International Trade. sugar, favourable Canadian International Trade
Tribunal ruling, st, 2207
Literacy, future measures to be instituted, government position,
qu, 2439
Marshall. Hon. Jack. tributes on retirement, 982
National Dayof Remembrance, sixth anniversary of tragedy at
l'Ecole Polytechnique. st. 2412-13
New Brunswick
Reopening of Saint John's Imperial Theatre, st. 542-43
Twenty-fifth anniversary of Official Languages Act, st, 320
Rabin, the late Yitzhak, tribute to former Prime Minister of Israel.

2195-96
Saint John, New Brunswick, bilingual nature of work force,
st. 653-54
Senate
Remarks by Minister of Transport, st. 855
Request for clarification, qu, 873-74
Status of Women, request for breakdown of program spending for
current and next fiscal years. qu, 1376, (r) 1503
Transport
Port of Saint John, importance of rail infrastructure. st, 870
Underutilized infrastructure at Canadian ports. need for proposed
new berthage and cargo sheds in Minister's riding.
qu, 1472, (r) 1554
United Nations, Fouith World Conference on Women. Beijing.
China. inquiry. 2386-89
Chinese woien, 2387
Micro-banks. 2388
Micro-credit programs. 2388

Cohen, Hon. Erninie J.-Conr'd
United Nations, Fourth World Conference-Cont'd
Rape in armed conflict, 2388
Refugees based on gender-related persecution. 2388
Sustainable economic development, 2388
Women and literary. st, 2108-09
Yukon First Nations Land Claims Agreement bill C-33, 756
B.C. Treaty Commission, 756
Gwich'in Comprehensive Land Claim Agreement, 756
Indian Act, amendments, 756
Native Agenda, 756
Royal Commission on Aboriginal Peoples, 756
Saskatchewan Indian Nations, 756

Collège Militaire Royal de St-Jean, forty-second anniversary of visit
by the Rt. Hon. Vincent Massey, st, 896
See also National Defence

Comeau, Hon. Gerald J.
Atlantic Canada Opportunities Agency
Cornwallis Park Development Agency
Allegations of mismanagement
Findings of National Defence investigation, government
position, qu, 2318
Response of minister, qu, 2177
Stoppage of funds, government position, qu. 2167
Circumstances surrounding appointment of Board of Directors,
govemment position, qu, 2168
Inventory control and hiring procedures, request for particulars,
qu, 2211
Support for investigation by Auditor General into allegations of
mismanagement, government position. qu, 2371
Cuts by Minister to National Defence Adjustment Fund,
government position, qu, 1340, (r) 1744
Method of awarding projects, government policy, qu, 286, (r) 424
Request for information on projects, qu. 1471-72, (r) 1745
Request for investigation by Auditor General, government
position. qu, 2177
Budget 1995
Defence Industry Productivity Program, government position,
qu. 1373, (r) 1552
Inequality in funding treatment of Atlantic agencies, qu, 1302,
(r) 1744
Canada Post Corporation, tabled, 2177
Extension of contract on leases, request for information on
members of consortium, qu, 1983, 2010, (r) 2115
Canada Remembers, fiftieth anniversary of D-Day, st, 579-80
Coastal Fisheries Protection amendment bill C-29, 459-60;
considered in Committee of the Whole, 470
Flags of convenience. 459
Northwest Atlantic Fisheries Organization (NAFO), 460
Ethics Counsellor, desirability of independent counsellor reporting to
Parliament. government position, qu, 2383
Federal Business Development Bank, tributes on 50th anniversary,
st, 910
Firearms bill
Availability to other provinces of similar arrangements. costs to
taxpayers, government position, qu, 2232. (r) 2351
Funding arrangements with government of Nova Scotia, request
for particulars. qu, 2232, (r) 2351
Firearms legislation, reluctance of Nova Scotia premier to take
position. qu. 1759
Fisheries. North Atlantic fishery. significance of presence of Spanish
warships in relation to neoptiations. qu. 1360
Foreign affairs. G-7 summit in Halifax. position paper not submitted
for parliamentary debate. governient position. qu. 1741
Governor General's Medal of Bravery. felicitations to recipients.
st. 1673

INDEX
Comeau, Hon. Gerald J.-Cont'd
Human Resources Development
Reform of unemployment insurance system, guaranteed annual
income as part of package, government position,

qu, 2349
Unemployment insurance reform, correspondence between federal
and Nova Scotia governments, request for tabling of
documentation, qu. 2420
International trade
Dispute with European Union on newsprint, government position.
qu, 1776, (r) 2076
Pearson Airport Agreements, meeting of minister with British
counterpart at G-7 summit in Halifax, government
position, qu, 1762
La Baie en Joie, congratulations to dancing troupe, st, 1835
LeBlanc, P.C., Hon. Roméo, tributes on appointment as
Governor General of Canada, 963
Marine Atlantic, M.V. Bluenose ferry service, tabled, 2083
National defence
Maritime and aerial surveillance and control, enhancement of
Arctic capabilities, government policy, qu, 2366
Search and Rescue Helicopters Replacement Program, statement
of requirements, request for answer, qu, 2463, (r) 2559
State of Sea King helicopters, replacement of fleet, st, 654
Nova Scotia
Congratulations to Dr. John Hamm on election as leader of
provincial Progressive Conservative Party, st, 2149-50
Effect of budget on Cornwallis Peacekeeping Training Centre,
government position, qu. 133-34
Necessity of peacekeeping training, govemment position, qu, 113
Proposed peacekeeping training centre, government position,
qu, 620, (r) 986
Status of peacekeeping training centre at CFB Cornwallis,
government position. qu, 112
Official Languages, Standing Joint Committee report
2nd, Estimates 1995-96, Vote 25, 1712-13, adopted, 1753
Precincts of Parliament
Consultation with Senate before undertaking further work.
government position, qu, 1167
Tunnel between East Block and Centre Block, appropriateness of
expenditure, govemment position, qu, 1131
Public Works, diversion of funds from designated Nova Scotia
Highway Project, abuse of privilege by Minister,
government position, qu, 1709
Saskatchewan, congratulations to Liberal Party on becoming official
opposition. st, 1889
Transport
Cancellation of winter ferry service between Yarmouth,
Nova Scotia and Bar Harbour, Maine, st, 2173-74
Federal-Provincial Strategic Highway Improvement Program
Introduction of toll booths on Trans-Canada Highway,
qu, 1661, (r) 2046
Nova Scotia
Diversion of funds, request for examination by Auditor General
of Canada, m, 1698-1700
Fleur-de-lis Trail, 1698
Highway 104. 1698, 1699
Tolls, 1698, 1699
Diversion of funds from designated project. knowledge of
transaction by Prime Minister, government position,
qu, 1679, (r) 2047
Request for answers, qu, 1926
Restoration of funding to designated project, request for update,
qu. 1691
Return of funds to designated project. government position.
qu. 1650-51, (r) 1988
Report of Auditor General on diversion of funds. government
position, qu. 2266
Pertinent documents tabled. 2559
Measure to terminate railway strike. considered in Committee of the
Whole, 1390. 1391. 1398. 1404, 1405. 1416

Comeau, Hon. Gerald J.-Cont'd
Removal of emergency response capability from smaller airports,
difference in standards of safety, government position,
qu, 1531-32
Replacement of search and rescue helicopter at Yarmouth.
Nova Scotia, st, 2008
Search and rescue, replacement of Sea King helicopter fleet, st, 449
Search and rescue replacement program
Purchase of units without tender, government position, qu, 2400,
(r) 2558
Suitability and safety of replacement units. government position,
qu. 2401, (r) 2558
Trans-Canada Highway, proposed toll booths in Nova Scotia,
government position, qu, 1839, (r) 1993

Committee of Selection
See Selection Committee

Committee of the Whole
Borrowing Authority Act, 1994-95
Coastal Fisheries Protection amendment bill C-29
Department of Citizenship and Immigration bill C-35
Excise Tax, Excise, Income Tax amendment bill C-32
National Sports of Canada bill C-212
Railway Safety amendment bill C-21
West Coast Ports Operations, 1994 bill C- 10
West Coast Ports Operations, 1995 bill C-74

Committees, Joint, Special
Canada's Defence Policy
Code of Conduct

Committees, Joint, Standing
Library of Parliament
Official Languages
Scrutiny of Regulations

Committees, Senate, Special
Euthanasia and Assisted Suicide

Committees, Senate, Standing
Aboriginal Peoples
Agriculture and Forestry
Banking., Trade and Commerce
Energy, the Environment and Natural Resources
Fisheries
Foreign Affairs
Internal Economy, Budgets and Administration
Legal and Constitutional Affairs
National Finance
Privileges, Standing Rules and Orders
Selection
Social Affairs, Science and Technology
Transport and Communications

Commonwealth Parliamentary Association
Bilateral visit to Britain and Northern Ireland, rep of Canadian
delegation tabled, 25
Forty-first Commonwealth Parliamentary Conference, Colombo,
Sri Lanka. rep tabled, 2362
Thirty-ninth Commonwealth Parliamentary Conference, Limassol,
Cyprus, rep tabled, 25
Thirty-third Regional Conference. Ottawa, rep tabled. 25
Visit by Canadian Branch to Hong Kong, rep tabled, 1678

Communications
Canadian magazine industry, proposed split-run enforcement
measures, si. 279
Fairness and honesty in newspaper reporting, st. 378
Granting of public relations contract for G-7 Summit
Contravention of Treasury Board regulations. governmnent
position, qu. 1927-28

Communications-Cooî 'd
Granting ot public relations contract for G-7 Summit-Cont'd
Request for estimated final cost. qu, 1928. (r) 2081-82
Request fori answer. qu. 1959
Request foi particulars on advice given to RCMP. qu. 1928.
(r) 2082
Radio Canada International
Future prospects for continuance
Goverament position, qu. 2463
Report of Senate committee on continued tunding, government
position, qu. 2489-90
Possibility of alternative funding. government position,
qu. 2492-93
Satellite broadcasting. consultation with CRTC and with both
position.
governme nt
Parliament.
Houses of
qu. 1803-04
Composition

of Advisory Board of Canadian Broadcasting
Corporation, tabled. 852

Composition of National Defence Minister's Advisory Group on
Defence Infrastructure, tabled. 1555
Conacher, laite Hon. Lionel, tributes on induction into Hockey Hall of
Fame. st. 917
Confiict of inferests, lobbying-, influence peddling and selling access,
qu, 354-55. (r) 456
Contlict of Interests, report of Special Joint Committee presented. 41
Constitution
Federal- Provincial negotiations. st, 182-83
Govemment efforts to keep Quebec wîtbîn Confederation. qu, 113
Constitution Act, 1867, poiwers of Senate, inquiry. 2501
Speaker: Senator
Cools. Anne C.. 2501
Constitutional amendments
Availability of opportunity for the proposaI of amendments.
government position. qu. 24 16-17
Clarification of situation in relation to aboriginal aspirations,
government position. qu. 2417
Distribution of veto power, status of British Columbia, government
position, qu. 2400, 2417
Scbedule for consideration of legislation. possibility of pre-study.
government position. qu, 2437-38
Veto proposais, effect on future status of Yukon, qu. 2418
Constitutional amendinents bill C-110. I r. 2501 - 2r, 2515-27, 2540-43,
2548; ref to com, 2548; rep. 2559-82: vote deferred.
3r, 2634;
on div.
2633-34;
2610-21,
ner.a.. chap. 11996. 2638
Aboriginal and treaty rigbts. 25 16
Aborîginal peoples. 2541
Aboriginal self-government. 2518-19
Adjudication mecbanism. 2541
Amending formula, 2542
Britisb Columbia. 2523-27
Canadian Bill of Rights. 2541
Changes to national institutions. 25 17
Creation of new provinces. 2517
First ministeis conficience. 2523
Francophones ol Necw Bruntswý,ick. 25-42
GencraI amnendino lo0rniUIa. 25 18. 2522>
National public inid est. 2541
()pting-out. 2517

Consfitutionai amendments bill C-11O-Gonr 'd
Powcrs to provinces. 2517
Provincial representation. 2541. 2542
Regionai veto formula, 2518, 2522
Supremacy of legisiation. 2541
Veto. 2516. 2517, 2543
Speakers: Senators
Camney. Pat. 2523-27
De Bané. Pierre. 2521-23
Fairbairn. Joyce, 2515-18
Graham, B. Alasdair. 2543, 2548
Kinseila. Noël A.. 2541-42
Murray, Lowell. 2518-21
Nolin. Pierre Claude, 2540-41
Simard. Jean-Maurice, 2542-43
Constitutional Amendiments bill C-110, Special Senate Commidttee
Motion to establish. adopted. 2547-48
Motion to amend order. 2584
Report. 2556. 2559-82; vote deferred. 2610-21, neg on dlv, 2633-34
Speakers: Senators
Bacon. Lise. 2575-77
Beaudoin. Gerald A.. 2570-71
Carney. Pat. 2573-75
Carstairs. Sbaron. 2567-70
Cools. Anne C.. 2613-14
De Bané. Pierre. 2563-65
Di Nino. Consi-lio. 2612-13
Gauthier. Jean-Robert, 2571-73
Graham. B. Alasdair. 2610-Il
Haidasz. Stanley. 2618-20
Kinselia. Noiël A.. 2556. 2559-63. 2620-21
Lawson. Edward M.. 2577-79
Lynch-Staunton. John. 2580. 2581, 2582
MacEachen. Ailan J.. 2614-16. 2618
Murray. Loweli. 2616-18
Oison. H.A.. 2580. 2581. 2582
Rîvest. Jean-Claude. 2565-67
St. Germain. Gerry, 2579-80. 2581, 2617
See Journais of the Senate
Constitutional implications of unilateral provincial attempt to
declare sovereignty or separation, inquiry. 769.
797-99, 1050
Speaker: Senator
Frith. Royce. 797-99
Contamination of National Parks and Historic Sites, tabled. 188
Controlled Drugs and Substances bill C-7. Ir, 2153: 2r, 2184.
2218-19; ref to com. 2219
Chemicai compounids. 2218
Police infiltration. 2218
Prescription drugs. 21 84
Treatment programs. 21 84
Volunteer drug prevention and drug victim support organizations.
2218, 2219
Speakers: Senators
Poulin. Marie-P.. 2184. 2219
Rivest. Jean-Claude, 2218-19
Convention of World Parliamentarians on Tibet, second conicience
heli] in Vilnius. Lithuania. st. 1976-77
Cooke. Mr. Robert
West Coas.t Ports Opciritions. 1994 bill C-10. considci cd
Commniîtcc oh the Wboie. 67

iii

INDEX
Cools, Hon. Anne C.
Address in reply to Speech from the Throne. 12-15
Budget 1995. Statement of Minister of Finance, inquiry. 1263
Business of the Senate. 1270, 2632
Child abuse and mortality. inquiry. 2010, 2219-22
Child abuse and neglect. death of Matthew Vaudreuil, inquiry. 2382
Civil Justice Review. inquiry. 1890-91, 2052-56
Constitution Act, 1867. powers of Senate. inquiry. 2501
Constitutional Amendments bill C-I10. Special Senate Committee
report. 2613-14
Criminal Code amendment (abuse of process) bill S-13, 2371,
2407-10
False accusations, 2408
False affidavits, 2408
Integrity. 2407, 2408
Judicial privileges. 2407. 2409. 24 10
Criminal Code amendment (plea bargaining) bill S-l15, 2487
Electoral Boundaries Readjustment. 1995 bill C-69. m to instruct
com to table final report. 2185, 2186
Firearmns bill. inquiry. 2348, 2372, 2373-76
Domestic violence. 2373
Gender feminist theory. 2374. 2375
Marksmanship. 2375
Spousal abuse. 2373
Spousal homiùcide. 2374
First Nations Government bill S-1.O1620
Frith, Hon. Royce. tributes on resignation from the Senate and
appointment as High Commissioner for Canada to the
United Kingdom, 841
Justice, damage to parliamentary process. inquiry. 2462, 2632-33.
2635-38
Air Canada bill C-129. 2632.2633, 2635
Airbus scandaI, 2632, 2633, 2635-38
Allegations against Mulroney, 2632, 2633, 2635-38
Justice, request of minister for investigation by Canadian Judicial
Council into remarks of Quebec judge. inquiry, 2501
Karla Homolka bill S-Il., 2110; point of order. 2139, 2140-42
Bill of attainder. 2140
Bill of pains and penalties. 2140. 2142
Law of Parliament. 2141
Karla Homoîka plea bargain agreement. presentation of petition.
2132

Law of parliamentary privilege. inquiry. 984-85. 1019-22
LeBlanc. P.C., Hon. Roméo, tributes on appointment as Governor
General of Canada. 968
Library of Parliament. Standing Joint Committee
Report
3st. terms of reference. 249
National Defence. future of peacekeeping forces in former
Yugoslavia. government position. 1586
Ontario Court General Division
Motion to strike Special Committee to examine and report upon
the conduct and behaviour of certain officers and
justices. 1164, withdrawn, 1281
Motion to strike Special Committee to examine and report upon
the conduct and behaviour of certain officers and
justices, 1281, 1625, 1627-28. point of order, 1641-43-,
mi debated. 2169-70; point of order. 2171. 2172;
mi debated, 2544-45
Practice of Famrily Law in Ontario, inquiry. 1958
Questions of privilege. 845, 855. 867-68. 2105-06. 2107
Notice of motion pursuant to Rule 43, 836, 2098. 2152, 2163,
2202-04, 2205

Speaker's Rulings, 919-20. 2211-12
Response to Speaker's ruling. 930-31
Relationship between Parliament and the Courts. inquiry. 985.
1065-69
Appointment of judges. 1066
Attendance of inenmbers. 1068
Control over internaI processes. 1067. 1068
Coordinate constitutional institutions. 1067

Cools, Hon. Anne C.-C<>nt'd
Relationship between Parliament and the Courts-Coni'd
Hansard. 1067. 1068
.ludicial independence. 1066. 1067
Parliamentary privilege. 1067

South Africa, tirst democratie elections. inquiry. 793-95. 796-97
Afrikaners. 795
Bushman. 797
Canada-South Africa relations. 793-94
Illiteracy. 796
Murder rate. 795
Soviet Union-backed wars. 795
Violence. 795. 796
Zulu nation, 796. 797
Supreme Court of Canada. decision on privileges of the Court.
inquiry. 2176. 2356-58. 2359-60
Solicitor-client privilege. 2-356. 2357
Veterans Review and Appeal Board bill C-67, 1663-65. 1856-58
Appeal process. 1664
Disability pension. 1663. 1664, 1857
Processing time. 1857. 1858
Veterans Review and Appeal Board. 1664
Violence in society. inquiry. 1356. 1466-68. 1495-97. 1498
Child abuse. 1467. 1495-97
Crime. 1467
Delinquency. 1468
Mothers, role of. 1495-97

Corbin, Hlon. Eymnard G.
Address in reply to Speech from the Throne. 149
Amateurism in journalism in Canada. inquiry, 550. 643-46
Atlantic Canada Opportunities Agency, substitution of boans for
subsidies. government position. qu. 1087. (r) 1190
Budget Implementation. 1995 bill C-76. 1729-30. 1770
Assistance to business. 1729
Canada social transfer. 1729
Downsizing. 1730
Early departure incentive. 1730
Federal employment. 1730
Freight rates. 1729
Health. 1729
Post-secondary education. 1729
Reform of Western Grain Transportation Act. 1729
Subsidies. 1730
Surplus employees. 1730
Ti arsfez s to provinces. 1729
Western grain transportation subsidy. 1729
Business of the Senate. 1010. 1595
Adjoumment. 1776
Complaini on translation of speech. 1856
Canada Council
Closure of Art Bank
Govemnment position. qu, 1534, (r) 1600-01
Request for answer, 1589
Possibility of reversing decision. st. 1835
Prior consultations with minister. government position.
qu. 1960-61
St. 1886
Closure of Art Bank. inquiry, 1761: revised. 17821, 1828-32
Arts Council. 1830
Mandate. 1829
Purchasing back art. 1832
Future of Ail Bank. st. 2315
Reduction in staff in Atlantic Region. effect on programs.
Caaia Ovcrninent position. qu. 1635. (r) 1694-95
Caainheritac-e. abolition of Ail Bank. role ofininister. qu. 1762.
(r1)
2(076
Christmas. way oi'cclehration in Canada. inquiry. 331

Corbin, lIon. Eymnard G.-Cuont'd
Criminal Code amendment (dangerous intoxication) bill S-6,
975-76, 988
Parliament as lawmakers. 976
Social consensus. 976
Supreme Court rulings. 975
Department of Citizenship and Immigration bill C-35. considered in
Committee of the Whole, 765-69
Economy. underground labour market, loss of tax dollars.
government policy. qu. 98, (r) 220-21
Euthanasia and Assisted Suicide Special Committee reports
3rd. extension of report date. 1002-03
Final entitled "0f Life and Deaîh". 1972-73
Excise Tax amendiment bill C-32, considered in Committee of the
Whole. 748-51
Firearms legislation. comments of Liberal Member of Parliament.
1660
First Nations Goveniment bill S-10, 1619. 1622
Foreign Affairs Committee. authority to meet during sitting of the
Senate. 989
Government Organization (federal a.-encies) bill C-65. 1977,
2011-13
Canada Councl. 2011. 2011.2013
Health
Extension of Veterans Independence Program to senior citizens.
inquiry. 195
Smoking within the precincts of Parliament. st, 91
House of Commons. decision to terminale printing of committee
proceedings. st. 1518
Intemal Economy. Budgets and Administration Committee reports
l3th. Senate Estimates 1995-96, adopted. 1175-76
lnter-parliamentary relations. Il 76-77
l4th. Privileges. Standing Rules and Orders budget. 1124
I 7th. Parliamentary Associations. 123 1-32
22nd. respecting m to prînt Volume 1 of Special Joint Commîttee
on Reviewing Canada's Foreign Policy. 1604
Senate budget 1994-95, 102
Internai Economy. Budgets and Administration. polîcy on
administration of inter-parliamenîary activities. equality
between Houses of Parliament. qu. 1134-35, 11l36
LeBlanc. P.C.. Hon. Roméo. tributes on appointment as Governor
General of Canada. 965-66
Legal and Constitutional Affairs Committee
Authority to meet during sitting of the Senate. 2006. 2007
Report
l6th. Firearnis bill C-68. with 14 amdts, 2282
Maintenance of Railway Operations. 1995 bill C-77. considered in
Committee of the Whole. 1445
Marshall, Hon. Jack, tributes on retirement. 981
Members of Parliament Retiring Allowances amendment bill C-85.
2015-16. point of order. 2018
National Round Table on the Environnient and the Economny.
nonrepresentation of New Brunswick. qu. 605
Request for answer. 671I
Neiman. Hon. Joan. tribute on retirement. 2041
Power of parliamentary committees. m to refer paper to Legal and
Constitutional A ffairs Committee. 1130
Precinets of Parliament. central heating problemrs. request for
remedy. qu. 1168, (r) 1305
Privilegaes. Standing Rules and Orders Commitcee
Authority to study and report upon decision of the House of'
Commons to cease publication of committee
proceedings. 1720-21
Point of order. 1696. 1745-47. 1781
Reports
2nd. deletion of Rule 26 froin Rules of tbe Senate. 1010
3rd . aindmeni to Rule 17( 1> ic caîl of' the Senate.
adopted. 1640)

Corbin, Hon. Eymard G.-Colit'd
Reviewing Canada's Foireigt-n Policy. ruling by Speaker of the House
ot Comm-ons. point of order. 10 17
Rules of the Senate. infringeinent of Rule 26. qu. 188
Second Worid War. participation of Canadian troops in Italian
campaigen. inquiry. 550. 782-83
Security and Intelligence. possibility of esîablishing Senate
Committee. inquiry. 1221. 1508-10
Canadian Security Intelligence Service, 1508. 1509. 15 10
Senate, impact of decision of House of Commons to cease
publication of commiîîee proceedings. inquiry 1594-95.
1645. 1656
Transport and Communications Committee. autbority to permit
electronie coverage of proceedings. adopted. 1648
Transport. measure to terminate railway strike. considered in
Comm ittee of the Whole. 1421
Treasury Board, possible amendiments to Members of' Parliament
Retirîng Allowances Act. government position.
qu. 1041
Veterans affairs. Canadian Vietnam Veterans' Memorial. m to
provîde site for memorial. 176
West Coast Ports Operations. 1994 bill C-10, considered in
Committee of the Whole. 75
C irrectional service
incidence of tuberculosis in Ontario penitentiaries. governiment
position. qu. 1239. (r) 1550
Kîngsîon Prison for Womcn. brutal conduct of emergencx' response
team towards inniates. government position. qu. 1253
Referral of tuberculosis problem in penitentiaries to Minister of
Health, government position. qu. 1239-40. (r) 15505 1I
Use of' male emergency response team to strîp-searcb inmaîes ai
King-ston prison for women. government position.
st. 1236
Corrections and Conditional Release, Criminal Code, Criminal
Records, Prisons and Ref'ormatories, Transfer of
Offenders amrendiment bill C-45. 1r, 2068; 21-.
2100-03,
2119-2 1; ref to com. 2121:; rep without amdt but with
one observation, 2436-37: 3r. 2467; r.a.. chap. 42. 1995,
2546
ChilId sex ual offenders. 2 101
Detention. 2101. 2102
lnmates' earnings towards room and board. 2102
National Parole Board, credibility and accountabiliîy. 2102
Residency requirements for high-risk offenders. 2102
Sentences for multiple terms. 2102
"Serious harm". 2101
Treatment progranis for sexual offenders. 2 101
Speakers: Senators
Balfour, R. James. 21Il9-20
Pearson, Landon. 2100-03. 2120. 2121
Cory, Hon. Peter de C., Puisne Judge of the Supremne Court of
Canada
Royal Assent. 478, 664. 837. 2056-57. 2240
Court Challenges Program, reinstatement, congratulations to the
g-overnment. st, 870
Criminal Code amendment bill C-72. Ir. 1924: 2r. 1944-45:
ref to com. 1945: rep without anidi. 1979: 3r. 2019:
r.a.. chap. 32. 1995. 2057
Defence ol drunkenness. 1944. 1945
Speakers: Senatoi s
Beaudoin. Geîald-A.. 1945
Gieanies. Philippe Deane. 1944-45

INDEX
Criniinal Code amendment bill S-13. Ir, 2371; 2r, 2407-10
False accusations. 2408
False affidavits, 2408
Integrity. 2407, 2408
Judicial privileges. 2407. 2409, 2410
Speaker: Senator
Cools. Anne C.. 2407-10

Crimninal Code amendment (dangerous intoxication) bill S-6. Ir,919:
2r, 956-59. 975-76. 987-88, point of order. 988;
2r (con't), 10 12-14, 1044-46; ref to corn, 1046
Abortion. 1013
Daviault case, 956, 957, 958, 1044, 1045
Infanticide, 1013
Intent. 956. 957, 1044
Parliament as lawmakers, 976
Penalty, 958
Prohibited acts. 958
Prostitution. 1013
Reckless conduct causing harm, 1045
Self-induced intoxication, 1044. 1045
Sexual assault. 1013
"Sixteen Days of Activism Against Gender Violence". 10 12
Social consensus, 957, 976
Spousal abuse, 1013
Supreme Court rulings. 956, 957, 958. 975, 1012, 1013
Violence against women. 1012. 1045
Voluntary intoxication, 958
Women as victims. 10 13
Zero tolerance, 1012
Speakers: Senators
Beaudoin, Gérald-A., 987
Berntson, Eric Arthur, 988
Cohen. Erminie J., 1012-14
Corbin, Eymard G., 975-76. 988
Gigantès. Philippe Deane. 956-59, 988
Lynch-Staunton, John. 987. 988
Petten, William J., 988
Stewart. John B.. 988

Criminal Code amendment (plea bargaining) bill S-15. Ir, 2487
Criminal Code amendment (sentencing) bill C-41. Ir, 1796;
2r, 1825-28, 1870-73; ref to corn, 1873; rep without
anidt. 1923; 3r, 1923; r.a., chap. 22. 1995, 2056
Conditional sentence. 1827
Fines, 1827
Hate-motivateri crime, 1826~
Incarceration rate, 1871
Principles of sentencin. 1825
Purpose of sentencing, 1825. 1826
Reparation. 1827
Restitution. 1827
Sexual orientation. 1826, 1872. 1873
Violence against womnen, 1825

Speakers: Senators
Bacon. Lise. 1825-28
Di Nino. Consiglio, 1872
Jessiman, Duncan J., 1870-73

Crimninal Code, amnendmnents to sentencing provisions, st, 1180-81
Criminal Code, bil! to amend sentencing provisions. presentation of
petition. 1958
Criminal Code, Coastal Fisheries Protection amendment bill C-8.
Ir. 332; 2r, 360-65: ref to com. 365:. rep without amdt.
451; 3r. 45 1;rna.. chap. 12, 1994. 478
Coastal fisheries protection. 360. 363. 365
Consultation paper. Department of Justice. 361

Criminal Code, Coastal Fisheries Protection amendment-Conr 'd
Deadly force. 360, 361, 362. 363. 364
Disabling force. 362. 363
Fleeing suspect. 360, 361. 362, 363, 364
Felonies. 361
International law. 365
Peace officers working in penitentiaries. 360. 361. 362, 363. 364
Police. 361
Speakers: Senators
Frith. Roycc, 360-63. 365
Jessiman. Duncan J., 363-65
Kinsella. Noël A., 363

Criminal Code, Young Offenders amendment bill C-104. Ir, 1924;
2r. 1949-5 1; ref to corn. 1951:. rep without amndt but with
one observation, 1980; 3r, 1995, r.a.. chap. 27, 1995,
2056
Bodily substances. 1949, 1950. 1951
"Designated offenses", 1949-50
Disposai of substances and results, 1950
Privacy. 1950
Young offenders. 1950

Speakers: Senators
Graham, B. Alasdair. 1995
Kinsella. NoëlI A., 1950-51
Losier-Cool, Rose-Marie. 1949-50

Criminal Law Amendment, 1994 bill C-42. Ir. 855-56; 2r. 883-87;
ref to corn. 887;, rep with six amndts. 1096; rep adopted.
1096-97; 3r. 1097. concurrence by Commons in Senate
amndts. 1131; r.a., chap. 44, 1994,.1177
Affidavit, 883, 886
Arrest and interimt release schemne, 884
Arrest warrant by coroner, 884
Bail deait by teîephone. 884
Closed-circuit television, 883, 885
Crime, increasing and unreported. 883
Criminal courts, 883
DNA registry, 886
Eight-day remand rule. 883
Pretrial detention. 884
Pretrial proceedings. publicity, 884
Pretrial proceedings by video. 886
Privacy of witnesses, 884
Protecting victims of violence. 884
Publishing judicial proceedings, 884
Raising monetary limit for theft, 886
Statemnents videotaped, 886
Supremne Court. workload, 885
Uniform Law Conference of Canada. 883. 885
Speakers: Senators
Desmarais, Jean Noël, 885-86
Lewis, P. Derek, 883-85
Molgat. Gildas L., 887

Crown Liability and Proceedings amendment bill C-4. Ir, 353;
2r, 381-82. 402-03;, ref to corn, 403-, bill withdrawn from
corn and ref to another. m adopted. 407; rep without
amdt, 450:, 3r, 450-51; r.a.. chap. 11, 1994. 478
Americas free trade agreement, 403
North Amnerican Agreement on Environmental Cooperation, 381,
403
North American Agreement on Labour Cooperation. 381!. 403
Panel determination. 402
Side agreements, 402. 403
Tri-national panels. 381. 382
Speakers: Senators
Carney. Pat, 402-03
Lewis. P. Derek. 381-82
Moleat. Gildas L.. 407

Crow's Nest Pass, elimination of crow rate, goverrment policy. 621-22
Cultural Property Export and Import, Income Tax, Tax Court of
Canada amendment bill C-93. Ir. 2152; 2r. 2182-83;
ref to com. 2183: rep without amdt. 2246; 3r, 2272;
r.a.. chap. 38, 1995. 24 10
Appeal mechanism. 2182
Appeal percentage. 2183
Average annual dollar value of gifts. 2183
Ciitci for evaluation. 2183
Speaker%: Senators
Kirby. Michael, 2182
Spivak. Mira, 2182-83
Stewart. John B.. 2183
Culture in Canada
Sce State of culture in Canada
Customs, Canadian pilots. clearance precedures at Mirabel Airport,
qu. 914, (r) 1187-88
Customs, Customs Tariff aimendiment bill C-102. Ir, 2153:
2r, 2180-82; ref to cern. 2182; rep without amdt. 2370:
3r, 2385: r.a.. chap. 41, 1995, 2411
Duty deferral progrTams. 2180. 2181
"'Dufy drawback", 2180
Manufacturing inputs, 2180, 2181
Travellers' exemptions, 2180, 2181
Valuation rules, 2181
Speakers: Senators
Bolduc, Roch. 2181-82
Hervieux-Payette. Céline, 2180-81
Customs TarifT amendment bill C-5. I r. 184; 2r, 225-27; ref In com.
227; rep without amdt. 280; 3r, 287-88; r.a.. chap. 3,
1994.,298
General Preferential Tarif., 225. 226, 287
Imports, 225
Speakers: Senators
Kirby, Michael. 287-88
Lavoie-Roux, Thérèse, 226
Lynch-Staunton. John. 226
Stratton. Terry, 226
Theriauît, L. Norbert, 225-26
Davey, Hon. Keitli
Banking. Trade and Commerce Committee report
26th. Excise Tax. Income Tax amendment bill C-103, 2450-52
Communications. Canadian magazine industry. proposed split-run
entorcement measures, st, 279
Excise Tax. Income Tax amendment bill C- 103, 2510
Frith. Hon. Royce, trihutes on resiognation from the Senate and
appointment as High Commissioner for Canada to the
United Kin-dom, 843
Lang. Hon. Daniel A.. tributes on retirement, 615
Mass media. existing principles of journalism. movement to abolish.
st, 1486
Tributes on twenty-eighth anniversary of appointment to Senate.
st. 159
David, Hon. Paul (retîred Dec.25/94)
Tributes on retîrement trom the Senate. 115 8-62
Davies, the late Robertson W., tribotes. 2395-96
D)e Bané, P.C., Hon. Pierre
Addiess in reply te Speech fromn the Throîie. 142-43
Appropriation No. 4. 1994-95 bill C-79. 1453. 1455-56. 1476. 1477
Appropriation No. I. 1995-96 bill C-80. 1458. 1478
Canada Councîl. closure ol Art Bank. inqtîiry, 1974-75

De Bané, P.C., Hon. Pierre-Cent 7/
Canada's Defence Polîcy. Special Joint Committee report tabled.
911, 937-40
CN Commercial ization bill C-89. 1914-15
Buying shares, 1914-15
Constitutional amendments bill C-I 10. 2521-23
British Columbia, 2523
First ministers conference. 2523
General amending formula. 2522
Regaional veto, 2522
Constitutienal Amendments bill C- 110, Special Senate Committee
report. 2563-65
Federal-Provincial Fiscal Arrangements and Federal Post-Secondary
Education and Health Contributions amendînent
bill C-3. 222-23
Capping. 223
Ceiling. 223
Equalization program. 222. 223
Five-province standard measures. 223
Five-year renewal, 223
Program floors. 223
-Tax-back issue". 223
Tax base changes. 223
International Assembly of' French -speaking Parliamentarians.
meeting of Executive and Committee on Parliamentary
Affairs held in Bamako, Mali, on March 6 and 7, 1995.
report of Canadian Delegation tabled. 1547
Members of Parliament Retiring- Allowances amendment bill C-85,
1938-40, 1942
Assad plan. 1939-40
Compensation. 1938. 1939
Double dipping. 1938.1939
Minimum age, 1939
National Defence Policy. Special Joint Committee report
I st. presented and adopted. 159-60
National Lîbrary amendment bill C-26. 528-29. 530
Book deposit regulations. 528
Federal gevernment publications. 529
Fine for non-comiplianic.528
Legal deposit. 528. 529
National Archives. 529
Quebec publishers. 529
Transport. measure te terminate raîlway strike. considered in
Committee ot the Whele. 1395
Dellence
Acquisition et nuclear-powered submarines. governiment position.
qu. 1634
Lobbyists involved in acquisition. request for particulars. qu, 1634.
1993. (r) 2367
Protection of Arctic sovereignty. gevernment pesition, qu. 1634
Reasens for acquisition of Uphelder Class submarines. government
position, qu. 1633-34. (r) 2364
Safety et Sea King helîcopters. governiment position. qu. 2069
Delayed Answers, 955, 1616. 1928
Delayed Answers to Oral Questions, 972. 986. 1011. 1041. 1087. I11,
1136, 1169. 1187. 1205. 1303, 1341, 1360, 1377, 1473.
1503. 1534. 1549. 1588. 1600, 1636. 1684. 1693. 1709.
1717. 1744. 1779. 1805. 2070, 2091
Request for answers. 915. 1685-86
Desmarais, Hon. Jean Noël (deceased July 26/95)
Criminal Law Amendment. 1994 bill C-42. 885-86
Affidavits. 886
Closed-circuit telex kion. 885
DNA registry. 886
Pririial pi ocedui es bx idee. 886
Raisxin ni onetai- Iiii it loi- thefti. 880
Staiementx. te be x deoiaped, 886
Suprerne Court. wsrklead. 88i

INDEX
Desmarais, Hon. Jean Noël Conit'd
Crinnrnal Law Amendment-Coni'd
Uniform Law Conference of Canada. 885
Health care. training of workers in underserviced regions. inquiry.
600.,647-49
Family practice specialty. 648
General practitioners. 647
General surgeons, 647
Medical superspecialization, 647
Northern medical centre. 649
Paramedical and nurse practitioners. 648
Senate, expression of thanks. st, 626
Tributes. 2060-62
Department of Agriculture amendment bill C-49. Ir, 87 1; 2r, 904-06;
ref to com. 906; rep without amdt. 937; 3r, 937;
r.a.. chap. 38. 1994. 989
Agri-food packaging and labelling. 90-5
Annual report. 905. 906
Change in name. 904, 90-5
Clarification of mandate. 905
Experimental farm stations. 90-5
New responsibilities. 904, 905
Power to designate inspectors, 905
Redress procedure, 905
Speakers: Senators
Hays. Dan, 937
OIson. H.A., 904-05, 937
Rossiter. Eileen. 905-06
Department o! Canadian Heritage bill C-53. Ir, 1182: 2r, 1216-19.
1229-30; ref to com, 1230: rep without amdt but with one
observation, 1529; 3r, 1529; r.a., chap. 11, 1995. 1793
Alternative television service. 1217
Annual report. 1229
Amalgamnation of departments, 1217
Canadian flag, 1216
Citizenship, 1218, 1229, 1230
Copyright, 1217
Diversity, 1218
Fee structures. 1217
Information Highway Council. 1217
Integration, 1218
Multiculturalism. 1216. 1218. 1230
Parks and natural resources, 1230
Racism, 1230
Social cohesion. 1218
Tourism, 1217
Speakers: Senators
Bosa, Peter, 1218
Haidasz, Stanley, 1216-17, 1218, 1219
Kinsella. Noël A., 1217-18, 1229-30
Department o! Citizenship and Immigration bill C-35. Ir, 761;
2r, 761-63; ref to Committee of the Whole. 763;
Whole,
of
the
Committee
in
considered
Hon. Eymard G. Corbin in the Chair, Mr. Bob
Blackburn, Assistant Deputy Minister. Department of
Citizenship and Mr. D. Martin Low, Senior General
Counsel. taking part in the debate. 765-68; rep without
amdt. 769; 3r, 769: r.a.. chap. 31. 1994. 773
Backlog. 762
Citizenship ceremonies. 762
Responsibilities of new department. 762
Speakers: Senators
Bosa. Peter. 761-63. 766. 767. 768, 769
Di Nino. Consiglio. 763, 766. 76T. 768
Fairbairn. Joyce. 765
Kinsella. Noëfl A.. 763. 766. 767. 768

Department of Citizenship and Immigration bill C-35-Cont 'd
and witnesses in Committee of the Whole
Blackburn. Bob. 765
Low. D. Martin, 765
Department of Foreign Affairs and International Trade bill C-47.
Ir. 1182; 2r. 1220-21, 1244: ref to com. 1244;
rep without amdt. 1355-56: 3r. 1378-81; r.a.. chap. 5.
1995, 1446
International organizations. 1220
Name change. 1221. 1244
Spending estimates. 1379, 1380
Speakers: Senators
Bolduc, Roch, 1378-79, 1380-81
Gauthier. Jean-Robert, 1220-21
Graham, B. Alasdair. 1378
Prud'homme. Marcel, 1380. 1381
Stewart, John B., 1379-80
Departinent of Foreign Affairs and International Trade, details of
budgetary saving-s under 1995 budget plan. tabled, 1601
com.
Department of Industry bill C-46. Ir, 1097; 2r, 11 12-14; ref teo
Il114; rep without amdt. 1181-, 3r, 1206; r.a.. chap. 1.
1995, 1334
Abori ginal business. 1114
Annual report, 1114
Business network. 1112
Canada Community Investment Fund. 1112
Consumer policy. 1113
Director of investment. 1113
Federal Business Development Bank, 1 12
Federal regional development. 1 13
Fees. 1114
Information highway. 1 13
Technology Partnership Program. 1112
Tourism, 1114
Speakers: Senators
Berntson. Eric Arthur. 1 14
Kirby, Michael. 1112-14
Department of Labour amendment bill C-30. Ir, 688;, 2r, 715-17;
ref to com, 717; rep without amdt, 757: 3r, 757;
r.a., chap. 30. 1994, 773
Additional funding from province. 717
Adjustment payments, 716
Atlantic Groundfish Adjustment Program, 715
Atlantic Groundfish Strategy, 715
Eligibility for benefits, 716
Fish Plant Older Worker Adjustment Program. 715
Labour adjustment. 715
Northem Cod Adjustment Recovery Program, 715
Unemployment in Newfoundland and Labrador, 716
Speakers: Senators
Bonneli, M. Lomne, 715-17
Stanbury, Richard J., 757
Department of National Revenue amendment bill C-2. I r. 332;
2r, 383-85; ref to com. 385; rep without amndt, 435;
3r, 456, r.a.. chap. 13, 1994, 478
Auditing. 383
Consolidation of two departments. 383. 384
Customs officiaIs, mandate and terms of reference, 383
Elimaination of duplication, 383
International trade. 384
Security at border crossing. 384
Tax collection. 383
Unionized enmployees. 384. 385
Speakers: Senators
Kirby. Michael..383-84. 385
Simard. Jean-Maurice. 384-85

Department of Natural Resources bill C-48. 1Ir.984; 2i. 997- 100 1:
ret to com. 1001 z rep without amndt. 10 18: 3r, 10 18:
r.a. chap. 41, 1994. 1177
Amalgamation. 997
Greenhouse gas emissions. 998
Sustainable development. 998
Speakers: Senators
Berntson. Eric Arthur, 998- 1001
Kenny. Colin. 997-98
Deputy Leader of the Opposition
Berntson. Hon. Eric Arthur
Deputy Leaders of the Government
Graham, Hon. B. Alisdair
Molgat. Hon. Gildas L.
DeWare, Hon. Mabel M.
Address in reply to Speech from the Throne. 191-93
Budget. New Brunswick. effeet of changes to unemployment
insurance. governiment position. qu. 188, (r) 308-09
Christmas Greetings. st, 1162
Desmarais. the late Hon. Jean Noël, tribute, 2062
Goods and Services Tax. removal of tax on reading materials.
government position. qu. 1213-14
LeBlanc, P.C., Hon. Roméo, tributes on appointment as Governor
General of Canada, 967
Legal and Constitutional Affairs Committee report
l6th, Firearms bill C-68, with 14 amdts. 2337-38
Regaistration. 2337
Literacy, authenticity of kits released. government position.
qu. 1891-92
Mviscellaneous Statute Law Amendment. 1994 bill C-40, 705
Transport. New Brunswick rail service. inquiry. 933. 961-62
Cuts to VIA Rail. 961
Dayliner from Saint John to Moncton, 962
Discount on adult fares. 961
Diefenbaker, the fate Rt. Hon. John George
One hundredth annîversary of birthday. st, 2087-89
Di Nino, Hon. Consiglio
Banking, Trade and Commerce Commîttee report
l3th. state of Canadian financial system. 956, 1008, 1009,
1046-48, 1049-50
Co-insurance. 1046, 1047, 1048, 1050
Consumer protection. 1046
Deposit insurance. 1046
Loans f0, Third World countries, 1048
Market discipline. 1047
Regulation, 1048, 1049. 1050
Risk-based sehemes. 1047
Stacking. 1046
Superintendent of Financial Institutions. 1048, 1049
Budget
Removal of tax credit. effect on seniors. qu. 136. 137
Business of the Senate. adjournmrent. 764
Canada-China relations
Diplomatie representations to China on sixth anniversary of
Tiananmen Square massacre. request for information.
qu. 1691
Human rights in China and Tibet. m, 1297-98, 1483-84. 1563
Human rights issues, governiment position. st. 247
Protest over granting of' visa to Taiwanese officiai. governiment
position. qu. 1691. (r> 2047
Representations on humnan rîghts abuses in China and Tibet.
piesentation of petiticon. 880-81
Validity of st:îteimnt on treedomn ot ielig-ion in Tibet. coe rnmnent
position, qu. I16921 (r) 2153-54
Censtitutional Amiendments bill C- Il10. Special Senate Cemiftee
report. 2612 I13

Di Nino, Hon. Consiglio-Cot d
Constitutional implications of unilateral provincial attempt to declare
sovereignty or separation, inquiry. 1050
Convention of WorId Parliamnentarians on Tibet. second conference
held in Vilnius, Lit huania. st.
1976-77
Criminal Code amendment (sentencing) bill C-41, 1872
Department of Citizenship and Immigration bill C-35, 763, 766.
767. 768
Energy. the Environment and Natural Resources Committee
Empowered f0 permit coverage of meetings by electronic media.
1294
Euthanasia and Assisted Suicide Special Committee report
3rd. extension of report date. 1002
Forum for Young Canadians. st, 1371
Government of Canada. human rights policies. inquîry 790-92
China. 790, 791. 792
Five-point peace plan. 790
Tiananmen Square. 790. 791
Tibet, 790
Health
Impact of changes to tobacco taxes. inquiry. 161. 266. 317-19,
524.,525
Additives in cigarettes. 319
Anti-smoking campaign. 524. 525
Anti-smuggUling. 317. 318
Cigarette smoking-, 317
Fine for selling tobacco illegally. 317
Health costs. 317. 318
Legal age for purchasing cigarettes, 31I7
Organized crime. 318
Plain packaging for tobacco products. 319
Tobacco smuggling. 318
Underground economy. 318
Human rights
China
5th anniversary of Tiananmen Square massacre. st. 543-44
6th anniversary of Tiananmen Square massacre. st. 1689
Nigeria. execuhion of Ogoni activists. possible restoration of
democracy. government position, qu. 2318, 2319
Sale of arms tu Thailand, government position. qu, 1087, (r) 1190
Tibet. installation by Chinese of Panchen Lama. st, 2499
Visit of federal commîssioner to China. remarks reported in
media. government position, qu. 2490
Immigration
Appointment of impartial members to Immigration and Refugee
Board, governiment position. qu. 951. 952
Capping of family reunification quotas, government position,
qu. 952
Deportation of member of terrorist organization, declaration of
Federal Court of Canada. qu. 2250-51
Immigration and Refugee Board
Qualifications of new executive director. governiment position.
qu. 1359. (r) 1551
Revîew of policy and appointment process. governiment
position. qu. 1097-98
Imposition of right of landing fee. effeet on poor immigrants.
st, f296
Reduction in numbers of immigrants, goveroment position,
qu. 952
Reduction of business class component,. governiment position.
qu, 46. (r) 114-15
Immigration. Citizenship. Customs amendment bill C-44, 1241-44,
1782-84
Appeals. 1783
Boders. 1241
Contraband. 1782
Day passes. I1782
l)epontatten. 1243
l)ue pieccss. rtght. 1783
Enloicement. 1241. 12421 1782. 1783
15 day pcried. 1783

INDEX
Di Nino, Hon. Consiglio-Cont'd
Immigration, Citizenship-Cont'd
Fraudulent documents, 1782, 1783
Illegal immigration, 1242
National security, 1241
Report to Parliament. 1783
Temporary release, 1782
Internal Economy, Budgets and Administration, policy on
administration of inter-parliamentary activities, equality
between Houses of Parliament, 1134, 1135, 1136
Internal Economy. Budgets and Administration, Standing Senate
Committee
Reports
Senate budget 1994-95, 89
13th, Senate Estimates 1995-96, 1082, 1124
14th, Privileges, Standing Rules and Orders budget, 1083,
adopted. 1124
15th, Budget for CSCE Parliamentary Assembly, 1083,
adopted, 1125
16th, Euthanasia and Assisted Suicide supplementary budget.
1083, adopted, 1125
17th, Parliamentary Associations, 1231
21st, Senate Estimates, 1995-96, 1507-08
22nd. respecting m to print Volume I of Special Joint
Committee on Reviewing Canada's Foreign Policy,
1603. 1604, 1607
27th, Aboriginal Peoples Committee budget, 1774
See Journals of the Senate
28th. Agriculture and Forestry Committee budget, 1774
See Journals of the Senate
29th, Banking, Trade and Commerce Committee budget, 1774
See Journals of the Senate
30th, Energy, the Environment and Natural Resources
Committee budget, 1774
See Joumals of the Senate
31st, National Finance Committee budget, 1774
See Journals of the Senate
32nd, Internal Economy, Budgets and Administration
Committee budget, 1774
See Journals of the Senate
33rd, Legal and Constitutional Affairs Committee budget, 1774
See Journals of the Senate
34th, Library of Parliament Joint Committee budget, 1774
See Joumals of the Senate
35th, Scrutiny of Regulations Joint Committee budget, 1774
See Journals of the Senate
36th, Social Affairs, Science and Technology Committee
budget, 1774
See Joumals of the Senate
37th, Transport and Communications Committee budget. 1774
See Joumals of the Senate
38th, Official Languages Joint Committee budget, 1774
See Joumals of the Senate
39th, Veterans Affairs Subcommittee budget, 1774
See Journals of the Senate
International trade, Pearson Airport agreements. meeting of minister
with British counterpart, request for particulars,
qu, 1586, (r) 1779
Justice, sale of Airbus aircraft to Air Canada, alleged conspiracy to
defraud federal government, numbers of RCMP
investigations publicized, request for particulars,
qu, 2250
Legal and Constitutional Affairs Committee
Instructing com to table final report re C-69. 2278
Report
l6th. Firearms bill C-68, with 14 amdts, 2292-93
National Finance. Standing Senate Committee report
1Oth. Supplementary Estimates (B) and (C). 1994-95. 1077
Supplementary Estimates for the Senate, 1077

Di Nino, Hon. Consiglio-Cont'd
Pearson International Airport Agreements bill C-22, 769-70. 823.
824-25
Inquiry, 769
Public Works
Decision of Minister to build new federal building in
Sault Ste. Marie, request for details of contract,
qu, 1187, (r) 1536
Future of Harbourfront Centre. inquiry, 1529, withdrawn, 1569
Harbourfront. Toronto, closing due to funding cuts, government
position. qu, 1533
Renovation of windows at Lester B. Pearson Building.
cancellation of contract, government position, qu, 1532,
(r) 1694
Reviewing Canada's Foreign Policy, m to print Volume I of Special
Joint Committee report, 1245-46, 1247
Senate, absence of approval for various projects, 1052, 1053
Solicitor General. efficacy of security arrangements at residence of
Prime Minister, request for results of investigation,
qu, 2270, 2271
Transport
Application of International Civil Aviation Organization
Standards at smaller airports, government position.
qu, 1520, (r) 1685
Pearson Airport Agreements
Request for copies of all material or information on which
Mr. Nixon based his report. qu, 1492
Transport Canada study, request for particulars, qu, 1491,
(r) 1538
Removal of emergency response capability from smaller airports,
government position, qu, 1520, (r) 1685
Young Offenders, Criminal Code amendment bill C-37, 1866-70
Community policing. 1869
Custody, 1868
Operation Springboard, 1866, 1869
Violent crime, 1866, 1867
Youth gangs, 1867
Yukon First Nations Land Claims Settlement bill C-33, 786
Distinguished visitors, seminar, Canadian parliamentary system, st, 542
Doody, Hon. C. William
Appropriation No. 1. 1994-95 bill C-20, 274
Appropriation No. 2, 1994-95 bill C-39, 633. 739
Appropriation No. 3, 1994-95 bill C-63, 1099
Appropriation No. 4, 1994-95 bill C-79, 1456, 1457, 1492
Appropriation No. 1, 1995-96 bill C-80, 1458, 1478
Appropriation No. 2. 1995-96 bill C-97, 1752
Atlantic Canada, dependence on Scotia Synfuels project.
reinstatement of special investment tax credit,
government position, 187
Auditor General amendment bill C-207, 628
Borrowing Authority, 1994-95 bill C-14, 291, 292, 293, 295, 296,
297
Deficit, 292
Tax increases, 292
Borrowing Authority, 1995-96 bill C-73, 1480-81
Exchange fund revenue, 1480
Budget Implementation, 1994 amendment bill C-17, 531, 532, 631
Benefit entitlement schedule. 631
Canadian Broadcasting Corporation, 631, 632
Cap on CAP, 631
Deficit. 632
Entrance requirement, 631
Freeze on public service salaries, 631
Reduction in railway subsidies, 631
Unemployment insurance schedule, 631
WGTA payments. 632
Budget. unemployment insurance. change in duration of claims.
government position. qu, 163-64

Doody, Hon. C. William -Cool 'd
Business of the Senate. 138. 139. 1476
Canadian Coast Guard. search and rescue operations. state ot
helîcopter fleet. qu. 45
Canadian Film Development Corporation amrendment bill C-31, 660,
662
Canadian Heritagae. actions of Film Review Board on adult films,
government position. qu. 1452, (r) 1693-94
Commonwealth Parliamentary Association
Bilateral visit to Britain and Northern lreland. rep of Canadian
delegaation tabled. 25
Thirty-ninth Commonwealth Parliamentary Conference. Limassol,
Cyprus, rep tabled, 25
Thirty-third Regional Conference, Ottawa, rep tabled. 25
Vîsit by Canadian Branch to Hong Kong. rep tabled. 1678
Intemnal Economy. Budgets and Administration Committee report
22nd. m to print Volume 1 of Special Joint Committee on
Reviewing Canada's Foreign Policy. 1507
Leg-al and Constitutional Affairs Committee report
8th, Pearson International Airport Agreements bill C-22, 789
Lobbyists Registration bill, ref to Standing Senate Committee on
National Finance. adopted. 1677
Maintenance of Railway Operations. 1995 bill C-77. considered in
Committee of the Whole. 1439
National Finance Committee
Authority to engage services of personnel. 92, 130
Authority t0 meet during sittings of the Senate. 585. 665. 688
Reports
Ist. expenses incurred durîng 3rd Session, 34th Parliament,
îabled. 92
See Journals of the Senate
2nd.
Supplementary
Estîmates
(B)
1993-94,
248,
adopted. 272-73
See Journals of the Senate
3rd. Federal-Provincial Fiscal Ar-rangements and Federal
Post-Secondary Education and Health Contributions
amendment bill C-3, 248
4th,
Supplementary
Estimates
(A).
l994-95.
600,
adopted. 624-25
Atlantic Groundfish Strategy. 624
Bonus. 624
Employment and Insurance Program. 624
Mobility assistance, 624
Weekiy benefit rates. 624
Sec Journals of the Senate
Sth. Budget Implementation, 1994 amendment bill C- 17. 618
6th. lnterim. Estimates. 1994-95, 627. 655-57. 739
Interest rates. 656
Military colleges. consolidation. 657
Post-secondary military education, 656
Report o)f the Min isterial Ceoiitee on the Canadian
Militarv Colleges. 656
See Journals of the Senate
7th. National Library amrendment bill C-26. 654
8th, Audîtor General amendment bill C-207. wîthout amdt. 727
9th. Canada Student Finance Assistance bill C-28.
without amdt. 743
lOth. Supplementary Estimates (B) and (C). 1994-95, 1056,
1075-76. 1077
Supplementaîy Estimates for the Senate. 1077
Sec Journals of the Senate
1Ilth. Supplementary Estimates (D) 1994-95. 1450, 1476-77
Sec Journals of the Senate
l2th. Borrowing Authority. 1995-96 bill C-73, 1487
Old Age Secuîity. Canada Pension Plan. Children's Special
Allowances. Unemploymienî Insurance amcndrnent
bill C-54, 1890
Precinets ot Pailiamnn
Authoi i te initiate pi ojeet. st. Il132
Tunnel beisseen East Block. andi Centre Bleock. icquest loiintenriatien. qu. Il166-67

Doody, Hon. C. William-Cent c!
Rowe. the ]ate Hon. Frederick William. tnibute. 684
Transport
Reliability of Labrador helîcopters on search and rescue missions.
govemment position. qu. 604. (r) 836
Search and rescue. replacement of Sea King helicopter fleet.
govemnment position. request for answer. qu. 882
Doyle, Hon. Richard .
Aird. Q.C.. the laie Hon. John Black, tributes, 1596-97
Budget. closure and future use of Downsview Military hase.
govemment position. qu, 238-39, (r) 324
Sec appendix p. 33 1A
Canada-China relations, humant rights and commercial relations.
government polîcy. qu, 1691-92. (r) 2154-55
Citizenship and immigration, review of refugee status claimants.
geovernment position. qu, 501, (r) 833-34
College Militaire Royal de St-Jean. forty-second anniversary of visît
by the Rt. Hon. Vincent Massey. st, 896
Davies. the late Robertson W., tribute. 2396
Energy, the Environment and Natural Resources Committee
National Protected Areas Strategy, authority to conduct study.
388-89
Foreign Affairs
New directives on foreign service travel directives. request for
particulars. qu. 1681. (r) 2073-74
Report of Auditor General on foreign service travel directives.
govemnment position, qu. 1681, (r) 2073
Goveroment services, refusai of airlines 10 negotiate discounts, with
Goveroment of Canada. qu. 1709
Health. reorganization of blood supply system
Govemnment position. qu. 1803. (r) 2079
Timing of final report of Krever Commission. government
position. qu. 2365
InternaI Economy, Budgets and Administration Commîttee reports
Senate budget 1994-95. 59-61
]3th. Senate Estimates 1995-96, 1082
21lst, Re-examination of Senate Estimates 1995-96, 1461
InternaI Economy. Budgets and Administration, policy on
adrmnistration of inter-parliamentary activities. equaliîy
between Houses of Parliament. 1135
Justice. Criminal Code. proposed revisions to accommodate cultural
differences. qu, 914
Justice, sale of Airbus aircraft t0 Air Canada. alleged conspîracy t0
defraud federal goveroment. rank of RCMP offîcers
engaged in investigation. qu. 2349-50. (r) 2558
Legal and Constitutional Affairs Commîttee report
l6th. Firearms bill C-68, with 14 amndts. 2294
Prestudy of bills, 2294
Marshall, Hon. Jack. tributes on retirement, 981
Mass media, existing prînciples of journalism. movement to abolish.
st. 1486
Metropolitan Toronto
National Forum on Health. lack of representation of region,
govemment position. qu. 903
ProposaIs for Social Reform. lack of representation on working
group. governiment position. qu. 902-03, (r) 1228-29
National Forum on Health
Appoîntment of representative from Metropolitan Toronto.
st. 1449-50
Request for particulars on expenses. budgets and conîracts.
qu. 1453, (r) 1553-54
National Library amendmenî bill C-26. 529-30
Deposît. 530
Fine foi non-compliance, 530
National Uniîy. ictieciions on referendumns and promises. si. 2166
Neiman. Hem. Joan. tribute on retirement. 2040)
Pi ecincs nf Pailianment
Cancellaîten of East Block ITunnel proîci. icquesi
i
information. q o. I1549, ir) I1694
Proposeti i Cnesmiens. goecrnent position. qu. 452-53. uî)974

INDEX
Doyle, Hon. Richard J.-Cont'd
Precincts of Parliament-Cont'd
Proposed renovations to East and Centre Blocks, government

position, qu. 306-07, (r) 974
Tunnel between East Block and Centre Block, request for
information, qu, 1166, (r) 1535
Public Works. renovation of East Block, Senate input, government
position. qu. 187, (r) 972-74
Question of Privilege (Hon. Sen. Cools), m pursuant to Rule 44,
2107

Reviewing Canada's Foreign Policy, m to print Volume I of Special
Joint Committee report, 1246
Senate
Absence of approval for various projects, inquiry, 994, 1051-52,
1053

Abbott Commission, 1051
East Block renovation, 1051, 1053
Senate's right to be informed, 1052
"The Long-Term Construction Project", 1051

Civic contributions of members past and present, st, 2130-31
South Africa, free and democratic elections, monitoring by Canadian
delegation. qu, 399-400
Spicer, Erik J., Esq., tribute on retirement as Parliamentary Librarian
and designation as Parliamentary Librarian Emeritus,
278

Transport, measure to terminate railway strike, considered in
Committee of the Whole, 1427
Wars and remembrances, fiftieth anniversary of the victory in
Europe, st, 1582-83

Economy
Budget paper produced by Reform Party, st, 1235-36
Creation of jobs for women through infrastructure program, request
for particulars, qu, 1716. (r) 2074-75
Effect of taxation on standard of living, st, 109

Expected increase in debt service costs, government position,
qu, 1109
Failure of infrastructure program to create jobs, government
position, qu, 1714-15
Market factors affecting foreign investors, government position,
qu, 1225
Partisan nature of the Opposition in the Senate, qu, 1226
Possibility of accelerated deficit reduction, government position,
qu, 1226-27
Possible redemption of Canada Savings Bonds, government
position, qu, 1109

Reduction in federal deficit, st, 1210
Target for reduction of deficit, govemment position, qu, 1224-25
Unacceptable level of unemployment, government position,
qu, 1713-14
Underground labour market. loss of tax dollars, government policy,
qu, 98, (r) 220-21

Electoral Boundaries Readjustment, 1995 bill C-69. Ir, 1547;
2r, 1555-61; ref to com, 1561; rep with 7 amdts, 1725-27,
adopted on div, 1730-35; 3r. on div, 1735; message from
Commons agreeing with 1 amdt and disagreeing with
others, 1836; m to concur with message from Commons,
1837-38; vote deferred on m to adjourn debate, 1844-47;
Speaker's ruling, 1847; vote deferred on m to adjourn
debate (con't), 1847-52: point of order, 1896-903:
Speaker's ruling, 1913; m to concur with message
from Commons, Speaker's statement, 1913; m to
adjourn debate, adopted on div, 1913-14; m to concur
with message from Commons, 1964-65; m to refer
question and message from Commons to com, adopted,
1965-69; rep from com, 1979-80, 2019-24; m in amdt,
2024-30; neg on div, 2030-31; m in amdt, neg on div,
2031-36; rep adopted, on div, 2036-37; m instructing
com to table final report, 2166, 2185-89: allotment of
time for debate, 2201; m instructing com to table final
report (con't), 2235-36, 2262, 2272-78; vote deferred,
2278; neg on div, 2290-91; m instructing com to table

final rep no later than December 13, 1995, 2399, 2423;
point of order, 2423-28; Speaker's ruling, 2428-29;
m (con't), 2429, 2444-46; vote deferred, 2470;
m neg on div, 2483-84
Alternate maps, 1557, 1559
Appointment of commissions, 1557, 1559
Boundaries commissions, 1556

Constituency boundaries. 1558
Creation of ridings, 1557
Criteria, 1560
Decennial redistributions, 1557
Elimination of parliamentary stage, 1559
Equality of voting power, 1558, 1560, 1561
House of Commons growth, 1561
Lortie Commission, 1555
Operation of commissions, 1559
Public hearings, 1557, 1559
Public participation, 1557, 1559
Quinquennial readjustments, 1557, 1559
Redistribution process, 1558, 1560
Revision process, 1558
Scrutiny by parliamentary committee, 1558
Transparency, 1559
25 per cent maximum tolerance, 1560. 1561
24-month suspension, 1556

Speakers: Senators
Beaudoin, Gérald-A., 1725-26, 1897, 1900, 2020, 2022-23
Carstairs, Sharon, 1555-58, 1731-33, 1735, 1848-49, 1899, 1900,
1967-68, 2021, 2023-25
Cools, Anne C., 2185, 2186
Fairbairn, Joyce, 1965-66, 2032-33, 2185, 2186-89
Grafstein, Jerahmiel S., 1901

Elections Canada
Electoral Boundaries Commissions, introduction of new legislation,
request for pre-study, qu, 1039
Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Act, introduction of suspension
bill, effect on commissions in each province, qu, 321
Electoral boundaries readjustment process

Extension of deadline, request for particulars, qu, 2251-52
Transmission of maps by Chief Electoral Officer, request for
information, qu, 1891
Readjustment of electoral boundaries based on 1991 census,
government position, qu, 1039

Graham, B. Alasdair, 1837, 1844, 1845-46, 1847-48, 1852,
1896-97, 2020, 2036
Kelly, William M., 2021
Kinsella, Noël A., 1852
Lewis, P. Derek, 2031-32
Lynch-Staunton, John, 1847, 1896, 1900, 1901, 1966-67. 2021,
2022. 2025-27, 2032
Murray, Lowell, 1558-61, 1726, 1727, 1730-31,
1851-52, 1964-65, 1968, 2020, 2029

1844-45,

Nolin, Pierre Claude, 1733, 1898, 1899-900, 1903. 2189
Olson. H.A., 1897-98

Phillips. Orville H., 1899
Electoral Boundaries Commission
Revisions to riding boundaries. status of hearings. qu. 284
Suspension of operation under proposed legislation
Government position. qu, 251-52
Proposed use of closure. government position. qu, 283-84

Prud'homme. Marcel. 1725, 1726-27, 1733-35, 1901-03. 1968-69.
2021-22. 2029-30, 2034-35. 2189
St. Germain. Gerry. 1899
Stanbury. Richard J.. 1849-51. 1901, 2027-29
Stewart. John B., 1846-47, 1898, 1899

Electorai Boundaries Readjustment Suspension bill, future oh'
billC- 18. qu, 516-17
Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Suspension bill, 1994
British Columbia, concerns of constituents. st, 393-94, 394
Constituencies. provinces. and munîcipalities. process
consultation. government position. qu. 358-59

of

Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Suspension, 1994 bill C-18.
Ir. 302; 2r, 310-15, 325-26, 336-50; ret to com..350;
rep with amdts. 420-21. 439-41. 485-98, m in amdl.
neg on div. 498-99. rep adopted on div. 499-500:
3r. on div. 500; message from Commons concuîTing in
two amdts and amendîng one amdt. 619; concurrence in
Commons amdt. 619, 633-39; r.a.. chap. 19. 1994. 664
Alberta, 336, 338
Allocation of seats among provinces, 311l
British Columbia, 339, 340
Constitutionality of bill, 312
Constituency boundaries. 311. 313
Decennial census. 311. 313
Electoral boundaries commissions. 311. 312. 313, 345
Criteria to set boundaries. 312
Equality of voting power, 313, 336. 337, 339, 342
Formula for determining number of seats, 311
lmpartiality. 336
Increase in members of House of Commons. 312
Parlisanship. 336. 338
Proportionate representation. 3 13
Readjustment of boundaries. 311. 312
Redistribution pîocess, 311.ý 313. 314. 337. 341. 344. 345, 346. 347
Representation by population. 312. 336. 337, 342
Role of Senate. 34 1. 348
Royal Commission on Electoral Reformi (Lortie). 311, 3 14. 343.
346. 348
Size of House of Communs. 349. 350
Tîmeframe for readjustment. 312, 314
See Journals oft he Senate
Speakers: Senators
Austin. Jack, 495
Beaudoin. Gerald-A., 439-40
Bosa, Peter. 498
Carney. Pat, 339-41. 347-48. 486. 491-94. 495, 497
Fairbairn. Joyce. 485-89. 633-35, 639
Frith, Royce. 440-41. 485. 487. 490. 494. 498
Ghîtter. Ron, 336-38
Gigantès. Philippe Deane. 490
Lewis, P. Derek. 310-12
Lynch-Staunton, John. 341-42. 343. 344, 345, 346, 347, 440. 441,
487. 489-91. 497. 498. 637-39
MacDonald. Finlay, 639
Molgat. Gildas L.. 342. 343. 344, 345-46. 347, 348. 441. 498. 500
Murray. Lowehl. 312-14. 315. 344, 345. 346. 498. 635-37
Nolin. Pierre Claude, 325-26
Perrault, Raymond J.. 488. 493, 494-95
Prud'homme. Marcel. 348-50. 496
St. Germain. Gerry. 497
Stewart, John B.. 497
Therîault. L. Norbert. 493, 497
Employment equîty bill C-64. Ir, 2117: 2r. 2134-36. 2157-59: ref to
cum. 2159; rep with amdts. 2316: mrin amdt. ref back tu
coni. 2385. 2385-86; rep modified. rep without amdt.
2468-69:, 3r. 2493-96; r.a.. chap. 44. 1995. 2546
Abuîiginal peuple. 2134. 2157. 2158
Canadian Humnan Rights Commission. 2135. 2136. 2158
Consultatin, 21 35
Disabled. 2134. 2157. 2158
Di sciiminaltion, 2 134
l)ussnsizing. 2159
Enfoi cernent, 213

Empinyment equity bill C-64-Coi'd
Human Rigahîs Tribunal panel, 2135. 2136
"Menit system*'. 2159
"Nurnerical- goals. 2158
Parliament as an employer 2158
Persons with disabilities. 2494
Quotas. 2135
Race Relations Foundation. 2495
Review ot legisiation. 2135
Visible minorities. 2134, 2157. 2494. 2495
Women. 2134, 2157, 2158
See Journals of the Senate
Speakers: Senators
Bonnell. M. Lome. 2496
Bosa. Peter. 2495. 2496
Carstairs. Sharon. 2496
Graham, B. Alasdair. 2493
Johnson, Janis. 2157-59, 2494-95
Kinsella. Noël A.. 2136. 2495
Lavoie-Roux. Therese. 2493-94
Losier-Cool. Rose-Marie. 2134-35, 2496
Employment, fluctuations in job creation statistics. situation in Quebec.
gýovemnment position. qu. 2401-02
Employment, tabled. 2385
Energy
Hibernia Project. contract with Saint John shipyard. st. 1038
Proposed carbon tax. government policy. qu. 48
Scotia Synluels project. production of synthetie fuels. st. 202
Energy, the Environment and Natural Resources, Standing Senate
Committee
Authority to engage set-vices and to travel. 353, adopted. 385
Authority lu meel during sittîngs of the Senate. 1339
Aulhorily to monitor matters related 10 the tedeîal environmental
assessment process. 110, adopted. 157
Automated Weather Observation Stations. authority to table interim
report. adopted. 1961-62
Empowered to permît coverage ot meeting by election media. 1250.
adopted. 1293-94
Globe 94 Conterence. Wilderness Vision Colloquium, North
American Natural Gas Conference. Reports of
committee tabled. 727
Jobs and the environment. authority 10 conduet study. 353-43.
adopted. 390
Membership
.See Journals of the Senate
National protected areas strategy
Authority 10 conduct study. 353, adopted. 386-90
Motion 10 extend date of final report. 2462, adopted, 2487
Reports
Ist. tabled. 78
2nd. Canada Oul and Gas Operations. Canada Petroleum
Resources. National Energy Board amendment bill C-6,
without amdt. 420
3rd. National Protected Areas Strategy, 617-18, adopred. 639
See Journals ot the Senate
4th. Migratory Birds Convention. 1994 bill C-23, without amdt.
726
Sth. Canada Wildlife amendment bill C-24. without amdt. 726
6th. Canada Petroleum Resources amendmnent bill C-25.
withoul amdt. 871
7th. National Protected Ai-cas Strateg-y inteîim report. tabled. 993.
adopted. 105(0
8th. National Protecîed Areas Strategy. extension of final report
date. 993-94. adopied. 1050
9îb. Depai Iment of Natui ai Resources bill C-48. wvithout amidt.
1018
lOîb. Canadian Ens ironrnental Asssnient amien(lment bill C-56.
wsithout anidt. Il 63

INDEX
Energy, the Environment and Natural Resources-Conr 'd
Reports--Coin 'd
11 th, Alternative fuels for internai combustion engines bill S 7.
1518-19. adopted. 1538-42
Bronson report. 1540. 1542
Conversion program. 1539
Electrochemnical source. 1541
Fuel cells. 1541
Government's fleet of vehicles. 1539, 1542
Legisiative process, 1541
Surplus cars owned by government. 1541
United States. 1540
Speakers: Senators
Hays. Dan. 1541
Kenny, Colin. 1538-40. 1541-42
Keon, Wilbert J.. 1540-41
Kinsella. Noël A.. 1541
Nolin. Pierre Claude, 1542
See Journials of the Senate
l2th. National Protected Areas Strate. extension of final report
date. 1546-47, adopted. 1590
13th. Entitled "'Report of the Committee's Fact-Finding Mission
to Washington. D.C., March 6-9, 1995". tabled, 1760
l4th. Travel to British Columbia, National Protected Areas
Strategy. tabled. 1760
I Sîh, Travel to Nova Scotia. National Protected Areas Strategy,
tabled. 1760
I 6th. Alternative Fuels bill S-7, adopted, 1889
See Joumals of the Senate
I 7th, Automated Weather Observation Systems. interim report
entitled "Pull Up! Pull Up!". tabled, 1981, 2201-02
Response to interim report. tabled. 2415
l8th, Explosives amendment bill C-71, without amdt. 2174
l9th. Auditor General amendment bill C-83, without amdt. 2461
2Oth, National Protected Areas Strategy, tabled, 2608-09

Environment
Automation

of weather stations, reliability of technology,
government position. qu. 1303, (r) 1986
Cancellation of report on state of environment. possibility of
discussion on sustainable development at G-7 summit.
govemment position, qu. 1743. (r) 2201
Changes to weather reporting service adversely affecting rural and
isolated areas, government position. qu. 1843,
(r) 2557-58
Federal management of radioactive waste material. report of Auditor
General of Canada, government position, qu, 1663
Globe '94. environmental exposition, Vancouver. st, 236
Greenhouse gas reduction strategy. failure to reach agreement.
g0verniment position. qu. 1239, (r) 1304
International Joint Commission. recommendations on toxicity
reduction in Great Lakes
Government position, qu. 135, (r) 308
Guidelines for detection apparatus, government position. qu. 356,
(r) 456
Low-level military flights over Labrador, impact on human health
and wildlife. st, 1572
Manitoba, oriented strand board plant. possibility of hearing before
independent, review panel, government position,
qu. 1549. (r) 1694
Oriented Strandboard plant in Saskatchewan, extension of
environmental review to cover downstream effects in
Manitoba. government position. qu. 1633
Oriented Strandboard plants. cumulative effect of harvesting on
boi cal forests. govei-nment position. qu. 1633
Proclamation of Environment Assessment Act. status of draft
regaulations. covernment timietable. qu. 286. (r) 402
Reduction of gr-eenhousé ,as emissions. establishment of national
standards. .government position. qu. 2319

Environment-Co,îî'd
Review of Canadian Environmental Protection Act, report of
position,
governmenî
committee.
Commons
qu. 2403-04
Sagkeeng First Nation. effect of pulp milI pollution. government
position, qu. 218, (r) 454-55
St. Lawrence Vision 2000, reduction of pollution. government
position. qu. 304. (r) 555
Study of low-level military flights in Labrador, governmenî response
to criticism of process. qu. 848. (r) 1205
Environinent, sustainable developmnent. inquiry. 1237, 1622-25
Air quality. 1624
Cod fishery, 1625
Global environmental crisis. 1623
Habitat preservation, 1622
Network of wilderness lands. 1622
Ozone layer, 1623
Sockeye salmon. 1625
Sustainable harvest. 1624
Water exports, 1624, 1625
Water management, 1624
Wildlife conservation. 1622
Speaker: Senator
Johnson, Janis, 1237. 1622-25
Environnient and conservation, inquiry. 1843, 2103-05
Harvested trees, 2105
Louisana Pacific oriented strand board plant, 2105
Soil conservation. 2104
Sustainable development. 2103
Toxic chemnicals. 2104
Wetland conservation. 2104
"Zero till" farming, 2104
Speaker: Senator
Johnson. Janis, 2103-OS

Environment Week, m committing Senate to maximum recycling.
adopted. 1677-78
Environental assessment
See Canadian environmental assessment. ...et cetera
Estimates, 1993-94
Supplementary Estimates (B). tabled, 183
Ref to coin, 184, 203-04
Estimates, 1994-95, tabled. 159, ref to com, 160
Atlantic Canada Opportunities Agency, review of activities by
National Finance Committee, qu. 165
Authoiity for Standing Joint Committee on Library of Parliament to
study Vote 10 of the Estimates. 184, 203
Supplementary Estimates (A). tabled. 510, ref to com. 511
Supplementary Estimates (B). ref to com, 911-12
Supplementary Estimates (C), tabled, 932, ref to com. 932-33
Supplementary Estimates (1», ref to com, 1315
Unemployment insurance cuts. plight of lobster fishennen, qu, 166,
(r) 221
Vote ref to Library of Parliament Committee. 1315
Vote ref to Officiai Languages Committee. 1315

Estimates, 1995-96, tabled. 1250. ref to dom. 1250
Supplementary Estimnates (A). tabled. 2199. ref to coin. 2199-200
Vote ref to coin. 2200
Voies îef 10 Officiai Lang-uages Comimitice and Library of
Parliament Committee. 1315

Ethics Counsellor
Desirability of independent counsellor reporting to Parliament.
government position. qu. 2382
Details ot terms of reterence. tabled. 852
Existence of Joint Committee on Code of Conduct. qu. 2383
Joint Committee on Code ot Conduct. relevance to parliamentarians.
qu. 238-3-84
Ethics of governiment, st. 1836
Enthanasia and assisted suicide, entorcement of current Criminal
Code provisions. presentation of petition. 1205
Euthanasia and Assisted Suicide, Special Senate Committee
Authority to extend date of final report, 1282-83. 1585. 1678-79
Authority to meet during sittings of the Senate. 484, 688, 869. 1081.
1131, 1223,'1445-46, 1649, 1678
Felicitations to members on tabling- of report, st. 1711
Motion to change name ot committee in French. 1518.
adopted. 1543
Reports
Ist. budget. 547, adopted. 587
See Journals ol the Senate
2nd. power to hold occasional meetings in cornera.
adopted. 744-45
3rd. extension of final report date. 984. adopted. as amended.
1001-03
Final. entitled "'Of Life and Death". tabled, 1704-05, 1720.
1753-54. 1786-93, 1970-73. adopted. 1997-2000
Speakers: Senators
Beaudoîn. Gerald A.. 1753-54
Carstairs. Sharon. 1791-93
Corbin, Eymard G.. 1972-73
Keon. Wilbert J. 1970-72
Lavoie-Roux. Therese, 1787-91
Neiman. Joan. 1704-05. 1720. 1997-2000
Evangelical Missionary Church (Canada West District) bill S-12.
Ir, 2316: 2r. 2386; ref to com. 2386; rep with one amndt.
2436, adopted. 2458; 3r. 2458: message from Commons
that bill passed without amndt. 2543: r.a.. 2547
Speaker: Senator
Gustatson. Leonard J.. 2386. 2458
Evangelical Missionary Church (Canada West District), presentation
of petit ion. 2264
Everett, Hon. Douglas D. (resigned Jan. 20/94)
Resignation from Senate. announcement and tributes. 19-22
Excise, Customs, Tobacco Sales to Young Persons amrendment
bill C-11. Ir. 628: 2r. 657-58. 672-73; ref to com. 673:
rep without amdt. 897; 3r, 915-16, r.a.. chap. 37, 1994.
989
Addictîve qualities. 672
Cancer deaths. 672
Civil provisions. enforcement. 658
Clearing stocks ot kiddy packs. 673
Costs of smoking. 672
Entor-cement. 658
Fines for violations. 658
-Kiddy packs". 658. 672. 673
Minimum agc. 658. 672
Plain packaging. 673
Seized o~cs658~
Sioking related di',eases. 672
Smegi~.658

Stanipiril- di.\ dual ci"gaiette'.. 658
Woinfl sinokei'.. 672

Excise, Customs, Tobacco Sales to Young Persons--Coir 'd1
Speakers: Senators
MacDonald. Finlay, 673
Oison. H.A.. 657-58. 673
Spivak. Mira. 672-73, 915-16
Excise Tax amrendmrent bill C-13. 1r. 3-32; 2r 366-69; ref to com. -369;
rep without amndt. 367. -396; 3r. 425. r.a.. chap. 9, 1994.
478
Agocultural sector. 366
Businesses, seasonal and part-time. 366, 368
Charities. 366. 367. 368
Financial institutions. 368
Goods and Services Tax. 366, 367
Homemaker services. 366. 368
Input tax credîts, 366, 367
Rabbits. 366, 367. 368
Sales tax reform. 366
Speakers: Senators
Kirby. Michael. 396
Stratton. Tenry. 367-68
Theriault. L. Norbert. 366-67. 368. 369
Excise Tax, Excise amendment bill C-90. jr 2118; 2r. 2136-38:
rel b coin. 2138: rep without amdt. 2207: 3r, 2234;
r.a., chap. 36. 1995, 2240
Air transportation. 2136. 2137
Gasoline. 2136
GST. 2138
Seizure and notification. 2136
Tobacco products, 2136. 2137
Tobacco smugg-ling. 2137
Speakers: Senators
Bosa. Peter, 2136-37
Kînsella. NoëlI A.. 2137-38
Oison. H.A.. 2138
Excise Tax, Excise, Incomne Tax amendmtrent bill C-32. Ir. 745;
2r, 745-48: ret to Committee ot the Whole. 748:
considered in Committee of the Whole. Hon. Eymard G.
Corbin in the Chair. Hon. David Walker. Parliamentary
Secretary to the Minister of Finance taking part in the
debate. 748-51:, rep without amdt. 751; 3r, 751;
r.a.. chap. 29. 1994. 773
Air Transportation Tax. 746
Anti-smugg.lînga initiative. 746
Excise tax on exported tobacco produets. 746
Fines, 746. 748
Flat tax. 746
Goods and Services Tax. 747
Health-promotion surtax. 746
Indian reserves. 746. 748
Interprovincial smuggl ing. 748
Inventory rebate. 746
National action plan on smuggling. 745
Provincial tax reductions. 746
Reduction in tobacco taxes. 746
Smnugg.li ng. 747
Surtax on profits. 747
Tax liability and offence provisions. 746
Three-year limitation on surtax. 747
Tobacco prices. 747
U.S. health tax on cigearettes. 748
Speakers: Senators
Corbhin. Eymard G.. 751
l-ky. Dan. 745-47. 750ý 751
Kinsella. Noël A.. 747-48. 749. 750
,nid witne'.s in Commitice ol the '.hole
W:, Iker. IDav.id. Pari i en tai s Seci etal to the Min istei ot
I
Finance. 749-501. 751

INDEX
Fairbairn, P.C., Hon. Joyce Cont'd
Agriculture-Coni'd
Delay in grain shipment from prairies, govemment position. 321
Grain handling capacity of Ports of Vancouver and Prince Rupert.
inquiry. 541
Grain transportation, possible sale of hopper cars, government
Advertising revenues, 2214, 2215
position, 2440
Anti-avoidance. 2216
Handling of grain on west coast. effect of failure to meet
Canadian magazine industry, 2214. 2215, 2217
commitments, government position. 454
Circulation revenues, 2215
Split runs, 2214, 2215
Imposition of U.S. import tax on Canadian sugar products,
Sports Illustrated. 2214, 2215, 2216, 2217
discussion with President during upcoming visit, 1212
Speakers: Senators
Improvement in international grain market, request for analysis of
Davey, Keith, 2510
situation, 1223
Graham, B. Alasdair. 2508, 2510
Movement of grain on west coast. govemment position. 422
Murray, Lowell, 2216-17, 2481-83, 2508-10
Potato blight in New Brunswick, compensation for damages
Stewart, John B., 2510
sustained by growers. govemment position, 1213
Stollery, Peter A.. 2214-16, 2218
Reduction of grain transportation subsidies. assistance to farmers
for increase in rail freight costs, government position.
1238
Explosives amendment bill C-71. Ir, 2110; 2r. 2133. 2155-56;
Reduction of transportation subsidies, effect on Manitoba
ref to com. 2156; rep without amdt, 2174; 3r, 2201;
economy. 1238
r.a., chap. 35, 1995, 2240
Strike by west coast longshoremen, delay in introducing
Air India Flight 182, 2155, 2156
back-to-work legislation. 47-48
Airports, 2133
Threat to sugar industry under new GATT rules. government
Detection, 2133, 2156
position. 1111
International Convention on the Marking of Plastic Explosives for
Toronto. status of trade negotiations, government position, 239
the Purpose of Detection. 2155
Transportation of grain, shortage of hopper cars, government
Plastic explosives, 2133, 2156
position. 285
Terrorism, 2133
Western grain marketing. possibility of national plebiscite.
Vapour detection. 2133
government position, 2492
Speakers: Senators
Western grain transportation, backhaul to Thunder Bay.
Kelly, William M., 2155-56
government position, 1041
Kenny, Colin, 2133, 2201
Aird, Q.C., the late Hon. John Black. tributes. 1596
Kinsella, Noël A., 2133
Appropriation No. 4, 1994-95 bill C-79, 1492
Atlantic Canada
Expo 2005
Dependence on Scotia Synfuels project. reinstatement of special
Announcement of host city, govemment position. qu, 1574. 1707
investment tax credit, government position. 186. 187
Selection of site, government position. qu, 1926
Atlantic Canada Opportunities Agency
Atlantic Canada regional venture capital fund, equity financing
External relations, commitment to France to continuing nuclear testing,
needs of small business, government position, 1110
govemment position, qu, 1763, (r) 2048-49
Auditor General's report. efficacy of infrastructure job statistics,
government position. 2405
Facilities at Banff National Park, tabled, 1555
Cornwallis Park Development Agency
Allegations of mismanagement
Facilities at Prince Albert National Park, tabled, 1555
Findings of National Defence investigation, government
position. 2318
Facilities for employees at Jasper National Park, tabled. 1555
Response of minister. 2177
Stoppage of funds, govemment position, 2167
Circumstances surrounding appointment of Board of Directors,
Facing the Challenge of Change: A Study of the Atlantic Economy,
government position. 2168
details of costs and authors of study, tabled, 1206
Inventory control and hiring procedures. request for particulars,
2211
Fairbairn, P.C., Hon. Joyce, Leader of the Government and
Request for answer to order paper question on KPMG report,
Minister with special responsibility for literacy
2209, 2210
Aboriginal peoples
Request for investigation by Auditor General, government
Co-management agreements in Saskatchewan, request for
position, 2177
particulars, 1707
Cuts by Minister to National Defence Adjustment Fund,
Rate of illiteracy among native youth, govemment position, 2385
government position. 1340
Report of Senate Committee on plight of aboriginal veterans,
Future of agency
request for response, 2233
Government position. 238
Right to self-determination, govemment position, 2384
Objectives and scope of government review. 252
Scholarship for aboriginal veterans, request for response to report
Grants to projects in New Brunswick, government position, 452
of Standing Senate Committee, 2540
Location and nature of management, govemment policy, 323
Adams, Hon. Willie, tributes on 18th anniversary of appointment to
Method of awarding projects. government policy. 286
the Senate, 1522
Request for information on projects. 1472
Address in reply to Speech from the Throne. 30. 31-33, 34. 35-36
Substitution of loans for subsidies
Agriculture
Application of similar rules in all provinces. government
Canadian Wheat Board
position. 1110
Proposed increase in initial price of grain. government position.
Government position. 1087
2119
Support foi investigation by Auditor General into allegations of
Timing of examination by experts. government position. 2011
mismanagement. government position, 2371
Crow rate. costs of transporting grain. government position, 666

Excise Tax, Income Tax amendment bill C-103. 1r. 2176; 2r. 2214-18:
ref to com. 2218; rep with one amdt. 2398. 2446-49: m in
amdt. adopted, on div. 2449-50; rep (con't). 2450-52.
2480-83, neg on div, 2497-98; 3r, 2508-11: r.a., chap. 46,
1995. 2546

Fairbairn, M~C., Hon. Joyce-Conî 'd
Atomic Energ-y of Canada Limited. appointment and competence of'
chairman. government position, 25 1
Auditor- General. dispute with departmenis over unreported
liabilîties. governiment policy. 1728
Beaulieu. Hon. Mario. trihutes on occasion of resignai ion. 740-41
Berger. His Excellency David, scrutiny on views prior to his
appointment as Ambassador to lsrael and Cyprus.
government position. 2011
Between the Lines. community literacy resource progrm. st. 1759
Borrowing Authority. 1994-95 bill C-14. 293
Bosnia
Ban on sale of armaments, government policy. 333
Canada's commitment to NATO air strikes. government position.
93. 94
Conditions for continuation of peacekeeping mission. visit of' UN
Secretary-General . governmenî position. 1040
Coherence of NATO sîrategy. government policy. Il 2
NATO air strikes on un-designated safe areas. government policy.
333
Release of detained peacekeepers. 1087
United Nations. requesi for NATO air strikes, government
position. 303. 304
Use of air strikes. Canada's role. governmenî position. 94
See also United Nations
Bouchard. Hon. Lucien, best wishes on recovery. st. 1054
Budget
Action against high interest rates. government position. 1086
Canadian Broadcasting Corporation, justification of funding.
government position. 163
Changes to rules governing RRSP contributions, position of
governiment, 96
Closure and future use of' Downsvîew Milîtary base. governiment
position. 239
Closure of Mîlîtary College ai Si-Jean. related additional costs.
623
Definition of tax loophole. 1237
Effect of carbon tax on cost ol agýricultural production, 94
Elderly benetits assessed by household income. governmenî
position. 953
Elimination of tax breaks l'or health and dental plans. government
position. 1110
Extension of wage freeze for public servants. government
position, 133
Giants to municîpalities in lieu of taxes. governiment policy. 216
Impact of budget on Atlantic région. concept of fairness.
governimeni position, 165
International Space Station Program. staîus ot Canada"s
commitmenî. government position. 162. 163
Request tor clarification. 236, 237
Methods ot deficit reduction. governmenî position. 1097
Military and funding cut-backs. effect on employment. 135
New Brunswick. effect of changes to unemploynicnt iisuiuiicc.
government position. 188
Private pension income. possible élimination of tax credit.
consultation with senior citizens. 1239
Proposed closure of Collège Militaire Royal de Si-Jean
Request for clarification. 334
Reversai of décision, goveroment position. 185, 217, 218-20
Proposed closure of Royal Military College ai St-Jean
Request lèr update. 622
Resumption of discussions. government position. 1111
Proposed closure of Royal Military College of Si-Jean. 399
Cancellation of décision. government position. .305
Reversai ol decîsion,.government position. 237, 238
R & D eut-backs. efleet on Biîtish Columbia. 135
Reaction of International Monetaiv Fund to eoveî nmlent's
pi posaI o reduce deficit. g-overninent response. 95-4
Re,,isîci cd Retiiemient SavinLs Plans. Los ernmient position on
Possible changes. 995
Requesi lot- date of présentation. 1225

Fairbairn, P.C., Hon. Joyce-Coli de
Budget-Cont'd
Government response. 1227
Revîew of goal for deficit reduction. governiment position. 1086
State of the economy. governmenî position. 1226
Status of RRSP as tax loophole. govemrment position. 1238
Tax increases l'or wealîhy Canadians. governimenî position. 1224
Threshold foi- clawbacks. consultations wiih senior citizens.
1238-39
Uncmnployment insurance. change in duration of dlaims.
government position. 164
Budget Implementation bill. 1995
Federal-provincial negotiations t0 esîablîsh standards for health
and social transfers. 1635
Proposed amendments to retict national standards. request for
particulars. 1636
Budget 1995
Cancellation of goods and services tax. gýovernment position.
1251
Closure of agricultural research stations. governmeni position.
1286-87
Defence lndustry Producîivity Program. governimenî position.
1373-74
Elimination of Crow Rate subsidy
Elfeet on grain shipping ports. g-overniment position. 1284
End of grain marketing monopoly of Canadian Wheaî Board.
govemment position. 1285
Maintenance of grain economy in Manitoba. governmenî
position. 1286
Elimination of Public Utilities Income Tax Transfer Act, effeci on
Province of Alberta, government position. 1252
lnequality in funding treatment of Atlantic ag-encies. 1302-03
Precedence of budget statement by Finance Minister over Red
Book, governimenî position. 1250
Ratio of spending cuis 10 tax increases. government position.
1251
Reduction 10 international assistance envelope. governiment
position. 1251
Reform of Old Age Sec urity
Effect on elderly women of application of clawback to
household income. 1287
Effect on older married women of application of clawback to
household income. 1253
Business of the Senate, 1370
Order Paper questions. request for answers. 1473
ProposaI to establisb commitîce to investigate orders of reference.
govemnment position. 955
Report of Legal and Constitutional Affairs Commîtîce on firearmns
legaislation. votes on amnendmrents. request for advice on
procedure. 2269
Cabinet. Libéral élection promises on reduction in size. government
position. 1708
Canada Assistance Plan
Removal of programs trom block tunding 10 provinces.
govemment position. 1805
Canada-China relations
Diplomatie représentations to China on sixth anniversary of
Tiananmen Square massacre. request for information.
1691
Human righîs and commercial relations, gos erninent policy. 1692
Protest over granti ng of visa t0 Taîwanese official. government
position. 1691
Representatives of human rigbts abuses. govcî rnment position. 238
Trade in coods rnanufactured in labour camps. g-overnmenî poIicN.
21l13
ValiditNs nIstatenment on I reedorn ol i-ion in Tihet. gos i rnnent
position, 1692
Visit t b Canada of Ch inese Premrnc. i aisi ne of huma n rîehî s
issues. gON
crrnmcnt position. 2112

INDEX
Fairbairn,P.C., Hon. Joyce-Cont'd
Communications-Cont'd
Request for estimated final cost, 1928
Request for answer, 1959
Request for particulars on advice given to RCMP, 1928
Radio Canada International
Future prospects for continuance
Government position, 2463
Report of Senate committee on continued funding,
government position, 2489, 2490
Possibility of alternative funding, government position, 2493
Satellite broadcasting, consultation with CRTC and with both
Houses of Parliament, government position, 1803, 1804
Conflict of interests, lobbying, influence peddling and selling access,
355
Constitution
Government efforts to keep Quebec within Confederation, 113
Constitutional amendments
Availability of opportunity for the proposal of amendments.
government position, 2417
Canada Remembers. fiftieth anniversary of D-Day, st, 576-77
Clarification of situation in relation to aboriginal aspirations,
Canada-United States Free Trade Agreement
government position, 2417
Grains, breakdown in trade relations, government position, 502-03
Distribution of veto power, status of British Columbia,
Canada-United States relations, proposed imposition of U.S.
government position, 2400, 2417
border-crossing tax, government position, 1183
Schedule for consideration of legislation, possibility of pre-study,
Canadian Broadcasting Corporation, evaluation of operations of
government position, 2437, 2438
corporation, 252
Veto proposals. effect on future status of Yukon, 2418
Canadian Coast Guard, search and rescue operations, state of
Constitutional amendments bill C-110, 2515-18
helicopter fleet, 45
Aboriginal and treaty rights, 2516
Canada's Foreign Policy, Special Joint Committee, appointment,
Changes in national institutions, 2517
253-56
Creation of new provinces, 2517
Canadian Heritage
General amending formula, 2517, 2518
Abolition of Art Bank, role of minister, 1762
Opting-out, 2517
Actions of Film Review Board on adult films, government
Powers to provinces, 2517
position, 1452
Regional veto, 2518
Canadian Broadcasting Corporation, cancellation of contract of
Veto. 2516-17
Pamela Wallin with Prime Time News Magazine,
Correctional services
government position. 1531
Incidence of tuberculosis in Ontario penitentiaries, government
Catalogue of national sports events, failure to publish in French,
position, 1239
government position, 1842
Kingston Prison for Women, brutal conduct of emergency
Expo 2005, report of independent evaluators, decision based on
response team towards inmates, government position,
politics or merit, government position, 1522
1253
Government documents published unilingually, infraction of
Referral of tuberculosis problem in penitentiaries to Minister of
policy on official languages, government position,
Health. government position, 1239, 1240
1893-94
Crow's Nest Pass. elimination of crow rate. government policy,
Canada International Development Agency. filling of vacant
621-21
positions without competition, government position,
Customs, Canadian pilots, clearance procedures at Mirabel Airport,
2269
914
Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission,
Davey, Hon. Keith, tribute on twenty-eighth anniversary of
increase in local telephone rates, government position,
appointment to Senate, st, 159
2167
David, Hon. Paul, tributes on retirement from the Senate, 1159
Chambers, the late Hon. Egan, tributes, 434
Davies, the late Robertson W., tribute, 2395-96
Chaput-Rolland, Hon. Solange, tributes on retirement, 413-14
Defence
China, human rights and commercial relations
Acquisition of nuclear-powered submarines, government position,
Government policy, 601, 602
1634
Government position, 553, 605
Lobbyists involved in acquisition, request for particulars, 1634
Citizenship and immigration
Protection of Arctic sovereignty, government position, 1634
Review of refugee status claimants, government position, 501
Reasons for acquisition of Upholder Class submarines,
Clerk of the Senate
government position, 1634
Appointment of Gordon Barnhart, Esq., as honorary officer of the
Safety of Sea King helicopters, government position, 2069
Senate, felicitations, 178-79
Delayed answers to oral questions, 1588
Appointment of Paul C. Bélisle, Esq., as Clerk of the Senate,
Department of Citizenship and Immigration bill C-35, considered in
felicitations, 178-79
Committee of the Whole, 765
Coastal Fisheries Protection Act, amendments to regulations tabled,
Desmarais, the late Hon. Jean Noël. tribute, 2060-61
547
Economy
Coastal Fisheries Protection amendment bill C-29, considered in
Creation of jobs for women through infrastructure program.
Committee of the Whole. 462
request for particulars. 1716
Code of Conduct, appointment of Special Committee, m. 1800-01
Expected increase in debt service costs. government position,
Communications
1109
Granting of public relations contract for G-7 Summit
Failure of infrastructure program to create jobs, government
Contravention of Treasury Board regulations, government
position. 1714-15
position. 1927. 1928

Fairbairn, P.C., Hon. Joyce-Cont'd
Canada Council
Closure of Art Bank
Government position, 1534
Prior consultations with minister, govemment position. 1961
Reduction in staff in Atlantic Region, effect on programs,
government position, 1635
Royal Winnipeg Ballet, loss of student grants due to budget cuts,
possibility of alternate funding, government position,
1895
Canada Health and Social Transfer, effect on spending of provincial
governments, government position. 1635
Canada Post Corporation
Delay in delivery of mail, government position, 2168
Extension of contract on leases, request for information on
members of consortium, 1983
Lease of premises in Sydney, Nova Scotia. intervention of
Minister of Public Works, 1982, 1983
Request for answer. 2010

Fairbaimn, P.C., Hon. Joyce-Cont'd
Economy-Cont 'd
Market factors affecting foreig-n investors. government position.
1225
Partisan nature of the Opposition in the Senate. 1226
Possibility of accelerated dcl icit reduction. government position.
1227
Possible redemption of Canada Savings Bonds. government
position, 1109
Target for reduction of deficit. government position. 1224, I 225
Unacceptable level ot unemployment. govemment position, 1714
Underground labour market. loss of tax dollars. government
policy. 98
Elections Canada
Electoral Boundaries Commissions, introduction of new
leg-islation. request for pre-study, 1039
Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Act, introduction of
suspension bill, effect on commissions in cach province,
321
Electoral boundaries readjustment process
Extension of deadline. request for particulars. 2251. 2252
Transmission of maps by Chief Electoral Officer. request for
information. 1891
Readjustment of electoral boundaries based on 1991 census,
governiment position. 1039
Electoral Boundaries Commission
Revisions to riding boundaries. status of hearings. 284
Suspension of operation under proposed legislation
Government position. 251, 252
Proposed use of closure, governiment position. 283. 284
Electoral Boundaries Readjustment. 1995 bill C-69, m to refer
question and message from Commons to com. 1965-66:
mnto instruct com to table final report, 2166, 2185.
2186-89
Electoral Boundaries ReadJustmenî Suspension bill. future of
billC- 18. 517
Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Suspension bill, 1994,
constituencies. provinces and municipalities. process of
consultation, government position. 358. 359
Electoral Boundaries Readjustmeni Suspension. 1994 bill C- 18,
concurrence in Commons amdt. 619. 633-35, 639
Employment. fluctuations in job creation statistics. situation in
Quebec, government position. 2401, 2402
Energy. proposed carbon tax. government policy. 48
Environment
Cancellation of report on state of environment. possibility of
discussion on sustainable development at G-7 summit.
government position. 1743
Changes to weatber reporting service adversely affecting rural and
isolated areas. government position. 1843
Federal management of radioactive waste material. report of
Auditor General of Canada. government position. 1663
Greenhouse gas reduct ion strategy, failure to reach agreement.
government position. 1239
International Joint Commission, recommendations on toxicity
reduction in Great Lakes
Government position, 135
Guidelines for detection apparatus, government position. 356
Environment. Manitoba, oriented strand board plant. possibility of
hearing before independent review panel, governmenî
position., 1549
Oriented Strandboard plant in Saskatchewan. extension of
environmental review to cover downstream effects in
Manitoba, government position. 1633
Oriented Strandboard plants, cumulative effect of harvesting on
horeal foresits. government position. 1634t
Piroclamation of Ens ironmient Assessmieni Act, staius of' di aft
regulaions. go ernomeni timietable. 286
Reduction of greenhouse Las emnissions. establishment ot national
tîandads. itovernînieni position. 2319

Fairbairn, P.C., Hon. Joyce-Cooî W
Environmenî Coiîî'd
Revicw of Canadian Environmental Protection Act. report of
Commons commitîce. governmenî position. 2404
Sagkeeng First Nation. cffci of pulp milI pollution. governmenî
position, 218
St. Lawrcnce Vision 2000, reduction of pollution,. government
position. 3(14
Study of low-level military fligbîs in Labrador. government
responsc to criticism of process. 848
Estimates. 1994-95
Atlantic Canada Opportunities Agency. review of activities by
National Finance Committee. 165
Unemployment insurance cuis. plight of lobster fishermen. 166
Ethics Counsellor
Desirability of independent counsellor reporting to Parliament,
govemment position. 2383
Existence of Joint Committee on Code of Conduct, 2383
Joint Commiîtee on Code of Conduct. relevance to
parliamentarians. 2384
Everett, Hon. Douglas D.. resîgnation from Senate. announcement
and tributes. 21
Expo 2005
Announcement of host cîîy. governiment position. 1574, 1707
Selection of site. governiment position. 1926
External relations. commitment of France to continuing nuclear
testing. government position. 1763
Federal provincial relations
Administration of infrastructure program. govemment policy. 95,
96
Agreement on internaI trade. nature and timeliness of
amendments to bill. government position. 2210
Conduct of securîty services in Qucbec. government opeî ations.
1743
Effect of enforcement provisions of agreement on interna] Irade
implementation
bill
on
interprovincial
trade.
g1ovemment position. 1715
Effeci of tederal polîcy on pharmaceutical industry in Quebec.
398
Status of relations. govemment position. 398
Felicitations on appointment as firsi woman leader st, 7-8
Finance
Duplication of progîams with provinces. government position.
874-75
Fiscal prograru updaîe. possibîlîty of tax increases. government
position. 874
Firearms bill
Availability to other provinces of similar arrangements. costs to
taxpayers. government position. 2232
Funding arrangements with government of Nova Scotia. requesi
for particulars, 2232
Motion to însîruct committee to table final report, 2109, 2121-23
Firearms legislation
Criteria and selection process for appearîng as witness before
committee. govcrniment position. 1548
Refusai by House of Commons Committce to heai testimony of
renowned f irearms expert. government position. 1548
Statement attributed to Prime Minister in caucus on voting of
dissenting members. government position. 1777
Fisheries
Aid for laid-off workers under the Atlantic Groundfish Straîegy.
requesi for staîîstics. 17 16
Atlantic Ground-Fish Sîrategy v. change in benefits. governiment
position. 304
Collapse of Atlantic fishery. lonizei terni prov ision foi laid-off'
woi keî s undei the Atlantic Gioîînfish Sîratee.-y
govrci nmeni positioSn, 1716
Nort1h Atlantic fi shers
Pi esence of' Spanishi sai shîps acconipalng, fn'Iishîng s cssels.
"loveri
fllCnt positioni. I 359

INDEX
Fairbairn, P.C., Hon. Joyce-Cont'd
Fisheries-Cont 'd

Significance of presence of Spanish warships in relation to
negotiations. 1360
Presence of Canadian naval vessels on Grand Banks, govemment
position, 1359
Support for vessels during moratorium. 334
Fisheries and oceans
Cuts in departmental budget, demise of Winnipeg freshwater
science teams, government position, 1842
Establishment of Industry Renewal Boards, government position
on buy-back of quotas and licences, 306
Extension of jurisdiction beyond 200-mile limit, government
policy, 95
Memorandum of understanding to transfer freshwater science
teams to Department of Environment, government
position, 1842
Timeliness of annual departmental report, government policy,
2366
Foreign affairs
Economic assistance to Middle East, government position, 501
G-7 Halifax summit, request for tabling of pertinent documents,
1839-40
G-7 summit in Halifax, position paper not submitted for
parliamentary debate, goverment position, 1741
Human rights issues, government policy, 285-86
Military intervention in Haiti and in Burma, government policy,
629
Negotiations towards inclusion of Chile in NAFTA, request for
progress report, 1960
New directives on foreign service travel directives, request for
particulars, 1681
Projected cost of G-7 summit in Halifax, request for details, 1762
Proposed visit of Chairman Arafat of Palestine, requirement for
ministerial permit. govemment position, 502
Remarks of Senator Stollery on Mexico
Possibility of Canada's withdrawal from NAFTA
Government position, 1522
Request for answer, 1706
Response from Mexican Embassy, government position, 1522
Report of Auditor General on foreign service travel directives,
government position, 1681
Return to democracy in Nigeria, efforts of department, 1744
Sales abroad of CANDU reactors, request for status report on
environmental and financial concerns, 1777
Sierra Leone, proposed national elections, contributions to support
fund, government position, 2467
Forestry, Clayoquot Sound
Grant by CIDA to protest group, 873
Grant by CIDA to protest group against logging, 882
Fournier, the late Hon. Edgar. tributes, 447
Frith, Hon. Royce, tributes on resignation from the Senate and
appointment as High Commissioner for Canada to the
United Kingdom, 839-40
Goods and Services Tax
Application on reading materials, 849
Application on reading materials and eye glasses, position of
government leader, 857
Failure of government to abolish tax, timing for resignation of
Deputy Prime Minister, 1533
Forecast for elimination or replacement, government position,
2441

Removal of tax on reading materials, government position, 1214,
2442

Government, progress of legislation, government policy. 42-43
Government services, refusal of airlines to negotiate discounts with
Government of Canada. 1709
Health

Bovine growth hormone
Evaluation of health risk. representations fron LJnited States.
government position. 2112

Fairbairn, P.C., Hon. Joyce-Cont'd
Health-Cont'd

Link between IGF- 1 and breast cancer, government position.
1927
Canada Health Act, plan to amend. government position, 1598
Centres of Excellence for Women's Health
Nature and funding, govermment position, 136
Outcome of site selection process, government position. 2100
Classification of tobacco as hazardous product, government
position, 44
Closer control on tobacco products, government position, 1804
Control of sale of tobacco products, need for legislation,
government position, 2350
Controlled drugs and substances bill, required amendments.
government position, 2119
HIV infection in women, reported increase in rate, application of
discretionary portion of departmental budget,
government position, 1213
Implementation of experts' report on plain packaging of tobacco
products, consultations by Minister, government
position, 1715
National Forum on Health, confusion and delay within
govemment, 516
New legislation to curtail tobacco consumption, government
position, 2233
Reorganization of blood supply system
Government position, 1803
Timing of final report of Krever Commission, government
position, 2365
Report on tobacco packaging, request for particulars, 1663
Tobacco Demand Reduction Strategy, distribution of study on
plain packaging, government position, 1521
Use of bovine growth hormone somatotropin, delay in
investigation of human health risks, government
position, 1840
Human resources
Discussions with provinces on manpower training, government
position. 1574
Review of social programs, 856
Human Resources Development
British Columbia, imposition of waiting period for payments
under Canada Assistance Plan, suspension of transfer
payments, govemment position, 2418
Child care, federal offer of funding
Comments in media, government position, 2503
Discussions with provincial finance ministers, government
position, 2503
Fiscal inequality among provinces, 2502
Lack of consultation with provinces, government position, 2503
Provincial cuts to programs, government position, 2502
Restrictions on categories of providers, government position,
2504
Inclusion of representatives of east coast fishermen on social
security task force, 46
Installation of telephone communications network, 422
National literacy secretariat, importance of program continuity
and volunteer participation, government position,
1214-15
Professional training, domain of provinces, government position,
45,46
Proposed source of funding for creation of child care spaces,
government position, 2119
Recommendation of committee report concerning literacy,
government position, 1211
Reform of unemployment insurance system. guaranteed annual
income as part of package. government position. 2349
Reported illiteracy rate in Canada. government position. I183-85
Social Policy White Paper. governnent position. 96
Unemployment insurance reform

Fairbairn, P.C., Hon. Joyce-Cont'd
Human Resources Development-Cont'd
Correspondence between federal and New Brunswick
governments, request for tabling of documentation,
2419
Correspondence
between
federal and Nova Scotia
governments, request for tabling of documentation,
2420
Division of responsibility for job training, government position.
2404
Meeting between representatives of federal and New
Brunswick governments, request for tabling of
documentation, 2403
Program for study of legislation, government position, 2506-07
Relationship to redesign of overall social programs,
government policy, 2420
Violence against women, importance of literacy, government
position, 1186
Human rights
Arms trading with transgressor nations, government policy. 1376
Arrest of activist in China, government position, 1983
Campaign promise of annual reports, government position, 2506
Commitment to intervention with transgressor countries.
government position. 1684
Compensation to Canadians for past injustices, 1167
Conflicting statements by Foreign Affairs Minister, request for
clarification. 1681. 1682
Discussions with Turkey on sale of aircraft, government position,
1376-77
Establishment of Canadian Race Relations Foundation,
government position, 1804
Establishment of Senate committee on affirmative action, request
for response to statement. 2208
Further incarceration of Chinese dissident, government position,
2491, 2504, 2505
Hiring by Canadian International Development Agency of former
Guatemalan General as consultant. government
position, 1634
Imposition of embargoes and sanctions against transgressor
countries, government policy, 2366
Indonesia, upcoming visit by Prime Minister, discussions of
abuses in East Timor. government position, 2506
Manufacture and use of land mines, govermnent policy, 2319
Nigeria, execution of Ogoni activists, possible restoration of
democracy, government position, 2318-19
Possibility of imposing embargoes on transgressor countries.
government position, 1682
Promised amendments te act, government position, 1804
Ratification of Human Rights Convention of Organization of
American States. government position, 2070
Delayed answer. 2091
Relationship to aid and trade. government policy, 1717
Relationship to trade, request for debate, 1693
Reports on record of various countries compiled by Foreign
Affairs Department. government policy, 1377
Request for answer, 1717
Request for debate on human rights and trade, government
position, 914
Sales of arms to Thailand. government position. 1087
Three Gorges Dam Project
Displacement of Chinese citizens, government position, 913-14
Financial assistance. government position. 914
Vigilance towards situations developing in other countries.
government position, 2505. 2506
Visit of federal commissioner to China, remarks reported in
media. government position, 2490
Immigration
Appointiment of impartial neibers to Immigration and Refugee
Board. ioei-nment position. 952
Capping of family reunification quotas. government position. 952

Fairbairn, P.C., Hon. Joyce-Cont'd
Immigration-Conit'd
Deportation of member of alleged terrorist organization.
declaration of Federal Court of Canada, 2251
Immigration and Refugee Board
Qualifications of new executive director, government position,
1359
Review of policy and appointment process. government
position. 1098
Reduction in numbers of immigrants, government position, 952
Reduction of business class component. government position, 46
Income Tax Act. Federal Court of Appeal, decision to strike down
child support provisions, government position, 453
Indian affairs
Cigarette smuggling on native reserves. 47
Clean-up of Canadian National train wreck debris on Birdtail
Sioux Reserve, government position, 1453
Contraband alcohol on reserves, 96-97
Legal action against Canadian National Railway, government
position, 1453
Status of negotiations on Oka, role of chief federal negotiator. 513
Industry, science and technology research. cuts to budget, timing for
release of study, government policy, 2350. 2351
Infrastructure program
Cutback in government spending, effect on employment,
government position. 356, 357
Effect on construction industy, government position. 2234
Financing for Kanata Palladium, government position. 335
Financing of professional sports infrastructure. government
position. 335
Formula resolved among levels of government, 399
Government spending. effect on employment, renovations to
athletic facilities in Edmonton and Calgary, 359
Source of funds for job creation, government position, 400, 401
Intergovernmental affairs
Consultations with provinces on matters concerning fiscal
transfers, 1599
Possibility of agreement on professional development, 985
International relations, human rights, government policy, 606
International trade
Agreement on participation of provinces, government position,
1574
Dispute with European Union on newsprint, government position,
1776
Pearson Airport Agreements
Meeting of minister with British counterpart. request for
particulars, 1586
Meeting of minister with British counterpart at G-7 summit in
Halifax, government position, 1762
Relations with European Union, impact on local industries,
govemment position, 1600
Reprieve from planned embargo on Canadian furs, possibility of
banning leg-hold traps, government position, 2365
Sale in Russia of United States pharmaceuticals. Canadian
representations, government position, 217
Status and acceptance of NAFTA, government position, 110, l11
Justice
Appointment of sister of Minister of Transport to Court of
Queen's Bench of New Brunswick, government
position, 1301
Authority for statement on political non-involvement in police
investigations. government position. 2465. 2466
Criminal Code. proposed revisions to accommodate cultural
differences. 915
Firearms legislation, efficacy of research of Minister. government
position, 2272
Firearrm s registration bill. availability of copies to senators,
goverinment position. 1215
Gunu contol legislation

INDEX
Fairbairn, P.C., Hon. Joyce-Cont'd
Justice-Coni'd

Avowal

by the provinces not to finance registration,
government position, 1662
Comments of Prime Minister on provincial responsibility,
request for clarification, 1662-63
Consultation with provinces prior to introduction of legislation,
government position, 1662
Financial self-sufficiency of registration program, government
position, 1662
Impact of gun control legislation on rural society, government
position, 1358-59
Minister's view on efficacy of jailing non-violent young
offenders. application of same principle to transgressors
against firearms legislation, government position, 2271,
2272
Parole supervision of high risk offenders, government position,
985
Political non-involvement in police investigations, statement of
minister to mediam government position, 2465
Re-establishment of Law Reform Commission, legislative agenda,
25-8
Sale of Airbus aircraft to Air Canada
Alleged conspiracy to defraud federal government
Approach to Swiss government for information, authority for
procedure followed, government position, 2487, 2488
Approval for letter to Swiss authorities, government position.
2247, 2248
Departmental letter to Swiss authorities
Minister's involvement, 2348, 2349
Source of leak to media, 2318
Equality of citizens before the law. request for confirmation,
2250
Knowledge of government ministers, request for particulars.
2466
Knowledge of Minister, government position, 2267, 2268
Libel action by former Prime Minister, source of funding for
government counsel, 2466
Motivation for RCMP investigation, government position,
2248, 2249
Motivation of minister in instituting inquiries, 2489
Numbers of RCMP investigations publicized, request for
particulars, 2250
RCMP investigative procedures. request for particulars, 2249
Rank of RCMP officers engaged in investigation, 2350
Request for apology to Government of Switzerland, 2266
Request for tabling of letter to Swiss authorities, 2250
Request for answer, 2317, 2318
Stage of treaty with Switzerland at time of request,
government position, 2488, 2489
Lang, Hon. Daniel A.
Tributes on retirement, 613-14
Welcome upon return to chamber, st, 301
Lawson, Hon. Edward M., twenty-fifth anniversary of appointment
to the Senate, 2096
Learning Disabilities Association, st, 1486
LeBlanc, P.C., Hon. Roméo, tributes on appointment as Governor
General of Canada, 963-64
Legal and Constitutional Affairs Committee
Firearms bill. m to instruct committee to table final report. 2109
Reports
2nd, Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Suspension, 1994
bill C-18, 485-89
Commissions, 485, 486. 487
General election, 488
Lortie Commission, 485
Readjustment process, 485
Redistribution process, 486. 487. 488
Special House Committee on Electoral Reform. 485
24-month suspension, 486. 488

Fairbairn, P.C., Hon. Joyce-Cont'd
Legal and Constitutional Affairs Committee-Conti'd
14th, Electoral Boundaries Readjustment 1995 bill C-69, m and

message from Commons, m in amdt. 2032-33
16th, Firearms bill C-68, with 14 amdts, 2341-42

Literacy
Authenticity of kits released, government position, 1892
Future measures to be instituted, government position, 2439-40
Making Scenes Between the Lines pamphlet, targeted adult
market, government position, 1894, 1895
OECD international survey, link between adult literacy and
employment, govemment position. 2438
OECD international survey, possibility of federal-provincial
conference, government position, 2443
Request for kits for senators, 1895
Visibility of literacy secretariat, government position, 2439
Literacy Action Day on Parliament Hill, st. 1209
Macquarrie, Hon. Heath, tributes on retirement, 719-20
Maheu, Hon. Shirley, tribute on appointment to Senate, 2606
Maintenance of Railway Operations, 1995 bill C-77, 1428-31;
considered in Committee of the Whole, 1434
Agriculture, 1429
Collective bargaining, 1429
Conciliation officers, 1429
Mediation-arbitration commissions, 1430
Manitoba, federal environmental assessment of forestry projects,
government position, 2405
Marshall, Hon. Jack, tributes on retirement, 977-78
Members of Parliament Retiring Allowances amendment bill C-85,
point of order, 2018-19
Metropolitan Toronto, National Forum on Health, lack of
representation of region, government position, 903
Ministry lack of focus of Cabinet ministers, 666
Molgat, Hon. Gildas L.
Felicitations on appointment as Speaker of the Senate. 948
Twenty-fifth anniversary of appointment to the Senate, 2096
Muir, Hon. Robert, tributes on retirement, 889-90
National Day of Remembrance
Fifth anniversary of tragedy at l'Ecole Polytechnique, st. 1054
Sixth anniversary of tragedy at l'École Polytechnique, st, 2412
National defence
Canadian Airborne Regiment
Inquiry into conduct, possibility of reinstatement. 1254
Reasons for disbandment, 1356, 1357
Closure of Le Collège Militaire Royal de St-Jean, government
position, 951
Closure of Royal Military College at St-Jean, 513, 514, 602, 603.
620, 621
Related expenditures, request for information, 630
Request for answers, 629, 630, 666
Request for information, 603
Compensation for cancelled EH-101 contracts
Government position, 1503
Request for particulars, 1713
Consequences of cuts to transfer payments to provinces,
government position, 1254, 1255
Disbandment of Canadian Airborne Regiment, difference of
opinion between Minister and Chief of Defence Staff,
government position, 2068, 2069
Disciplinary practices in Canadian Armed Forces, government
position, 1186
Disposition of Royal Military College at St-Jean, government
position, 503, 504
Effects of closure of Royal Military College at St-Jean. 136
Future of peacekeeping forces in former Yugoslavia. government
position. 1587
Initiative of NATO concerning peacekeeping in Bosnia,
participation by Canadian Armed Forces. government
position. 1741

Fairbairn, P.C., Hon. Joyce-Cont'd
National defence-Cont'd
Inquiry into activities of Canadian Airborne Regiment.
government position. 1185. 1357
Length of tours of peacekeeping forces, request for information.
1375
Maritime and aerial surveillance and control, enhancement of
Arctic capabilities. government policy, 2366
Peacekeeping costs charged to departmental budget. government
position, 1213
Peacekeeping in Bosnia
Ability of troops to withdraw from Visoko if recalled,
government position, 1839, 1840-41
Participation in UN rapid deployment force, government
position, 1761
Possibility of increasing size of force, government position.
1742
Request for parliamentary debate on increase in size of force.
government position. 1743, 1744
Status of Canadians held hostage, possible discussion of set-up
of UN force at G-7 summit, government position,
1778-79
Status of troops detained in Visoko. government position. 1838.
1839
Peacekeeping in former Yugoslavia, withdrawal of troops,
government policy, 1708
Peacekeeping operations in former Yugoslavia. demise of
Canadian Airborne Regiment. 1374
Possibility of purchase of nuclear-powered vessels. government
position, 1341
Proportion of non-military items in departmental budget.
government position. 995
Proposed cut-backs to defence expenditures. government position.
114
Purchase of Upholder Class submarines, cost to govemment, 1340
Reduction of Canadian forces capability, government position,
359, 360
Restructuring of Canadian Armed Forces reserve
Government response, 1519
Request for terms of reference of commission, 1374
Royal Military College at St-Jean, decrease in recruitment.
government position, 1357-58
Royal Military College at St-Jean, effects of proposed closure on
maritime students, 216
Search and Rescue Helicopter Replacement Program
Nature of reduction in capability, request for particulars, 2232
Proportion of Canadian content in contract bids. request for
particulars, 2232
Rationale for choice, 2231
Request for tabling of statement of requirements and report on
search and rescue capability requirements, 2363, 2364
Statement of requirements, request for answer, 2463
Search and rescue. replacement of Sea King and Labrador
helicopter fleets, govemment position, 1098
Training of First Mechanical Brigade for NATO exercises,
government position, 1742
Joint
Policy,
proposed
Special
National
Defence
CommitteeAppointment, 149-51, 152. 153, 154
National election, Red Book commitment to appoint ethics
commissioner, government position. 283
National finance
Amount of deficit. govemment position. 303. 323-24
Amount of deficit for 1993-94, government position. 552
Bank of Canada

Pay increases to officials, 1984
Salary increases for officials. goverrnent position. 1959. 1960
Bank of Canada rate. cffect on interest raies. 252
Control of debt and deficit. governiment position. 1925
Cttbacks in transfer payients to wsestern provinces, goveirnment
position. 401

Fairbairn, P.C., Hon. Joyce-Cont'd
National finance-Cont'd
Debt and deficit management, evaluation of International
Monetary Fund, government position, 2464, 2465
Deficit reduction plan, government position, 515, 551. 552
Downgrading of government's credit rating. government position.
239
Goods and Services Tax
Status of intergovernmental negotiations, govemment position.
2402
Timing of resignation of Deputy Prime Minister. 2402
Undertaking of Prime Minister on deadline on replacement,
govemment position, 2403
Increase in bank rate
Deficit reduction plan, request for fiscal update. 689-90, 691
Government position, 630, 667, 691-92
Interest rate, government policy, 310
International Monetary Fund. objectives and methods of deficit
reduction, government position, 2443
Job creation, govemment policy, 1925-26
Meeting of federal and provincial ministers. discussion of possible
national debt management plan, government position.
2464
Old age security, undertaking of Prime Minister during
referendum, government position, 2403
Reduction in deficit announced by minister, ramifications for
transfer payments to provinces, government position.
2440-41
Reduction in post-secondary education financing., 667
Report of Auditor General, long-term management of debt and
deficit. govemment position, 2265
Report of Auditor General on national debt. government position,
2111
The deficit, budgetary and political risks. effect on foreign
investment, government position, 322-23
National Flag of Canada, thirtieth anniversary of designation as
national emblem, st, 1201-03
National Forum on Health
Request for information, 848
Request for particulars on expenses, budgets and contracts, 1453
National Round Table on the Environment and the Economy,
nonrepresentation of New Brunswick, 605
Request for answer, 671
National security
Proposal to strike a special committee
Clarification of government position, 881-82
Government position, 876, 877. 903. 904
Request for answer, 1132-33
National unity
Constitutional amendments, request for tabling of documents
prepared by New Brunswick officials. 2442
Indian Affairs, document on post-referendum policy purportedly
prepared by official, govemment position, 2382
Presence of aboriginal peoples ai Quebec Round, government
position, 2382, 2383
Quebec referendum, possible reduction in elderly benefits.
govemment position. 2232
Quebec situation following referendum. government policy, 2167
Result of Quebec referendum, si, 2146
National University Hockey Championships, congratulations to
University of Lethbridge Pronghorns hockey team,
st. 213-14

Natural disasters in Alberta. si. 1724
Natural resources, new federal-provincial silviculture agreement.
government position. 1803
Neinan. Hon. Joan, tribute on retirement. 2038-39
New Brunswick
Share of patronage appointments, governiment position, 357
News senators. 838-39
Introduction. 869. 991. 1447. 2058-59

INDEX
Fairbairn, P.C., Hon. Joyce-Cont'd
North American Free Trade Agreement
Extension of agreement to include Chile, government position,
1708-09
Inclusion of Chile, influence on existing agreement, government
position, 1705-06
North Atlantic Treaty Organization, respect of human rights as
condition of continuing membership, government
position, 1692, 1693
Nova Scotia
Effect of budget on Cornwallis Peacekeeping Training Centre,
government position, 134
Industry marine products, relocation of plant from North Sydney
to Amherst, possible delay in implementation of
decision, government position, 2349
Necessity of peacekeeping training, govemment position, 113
Proposed peacekeeping training centre, goverment position, 620
Status of peacekeeping training centre at CFB Cornwallis,
government position, 113
Official languages
Access of francophones to Internet network, 1651, 1652
Report of commissioner
Quality of debate, government position, 334, 335
Recommendation to discontinue bilingual bonus, government
position, 305
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development,
appointment of Donald Johnston as Secretary-General,
length of term, govemment position, 996
Parks Canada
User fees, govemment position, 875
Parliament, program of legislation, government policy, 282, 283
Parliamentary Spouses Association, annual children's book show,
st, 870

Pearson Airport Agreements, Special Senate Committee, request for
particulars of expenditures on consultants, 2504
Pearson International Airport Agreements bill C-22, m to concur
with Message from Commons, 845, 857-61
Post-secondary education
Canada Scholarships Program, effect of cuts, possibility of
replacement, government position, 1341
Canada Student Loans Program, impact on federal funding,
government position, 605
Effect of cuts to social transfer payments on university enrolment,
1683
Effects of withdrawal of federal funding, government position,
333

Financing arrangements for student loans, government policy, 333
Increase in university tuition fees in Newfoundland, government
position, 1532
Reinstatement or replacement of Canada Scholarships Fund,
government position, 1683-84
Precincts of Parliament
Authority to initiate project, 1132
Cancellation of East Block Tunnel project, request for
information, 1549
Central heating problems, request for remedy, 1168
Condition of carpet in Senate Chamber, 1728-29
Consultation with Senate before undertaking further work,
government position, 1167
Proposed renovations, government position, 453
Proposed renovations to East and Centre Blocks, government
position. 306, 307
Request for definition, 1168
Role of Speakers as chairmen of Internal Economy Committees
of both Houses. 1168
Tunnel between East Block and Centre Block
Appropriateness of expenditure. government position. 1131
Request for information. 1166. 1167
Prince Edward Island
Fixed link. change in design of bridge, environmental assessment
review process, government position. 185. 186

Fairbairn,P.C., Hon. Joyce-Cont'd
Prince Edward Island-Cont'd
Fixed link. m to amend Constitution of Canada, 167-69, 172, 173,
240, 241-42, 243

Back-up ferry service, 241
Bilateral amendment, 167
Bridge, 167
Bridge construction agreement, 168
Clearance, 241
Compensation fund. 168
Constitutional obligation, 241, 242
Design changes, 172, 241, 242
Environmental review, 167
Ferry service, 242
Ferry workers, 168
Financing, 169
Ice, 241
Jobs, 168
Prince Edward Island Terms of Union, 167
Tolls, 169
Tourism, 169
Wood Islands-Caribou ferry, 242
Privileges, Standing Rules and Orders Committee
Authority to study and report upon decision of the House of
Commons to cease publication of committee
proceedings. 1723
Public Service 2000, report tabled, 482
Public Works
Cancellation of building contract in Dorval, Quebec. substitution
of rental agreement, request for particulars, 1586
Cancellation of projects within parliamentary precincts,
government position, 1216
Decision of Minister to build new federal building in
Sault Ste. Marie, request for details of contract, 1187
Details of costs involved in cancellation of project, 1215
Diversion of funds from designated Nova Scotia Highway
Project, abuse of privilege by Minister, government
position, 1709
Harbourfront, Toronto, closing due to funding cuts, government
position, 1533, 1534
Reconstruction of East Block Tunnel, status of project, 1215
Renovation of East Block, Senate input, government position, 187
Renovation of windows at Lester B. Pearson Building,
cancellation of contract, government position, 1532
Quebec
Distinct society motion, legal opinion sought on interpretation of
wording, government position, 2491
Distinct society resolution, comments by the chair of the Standing
Committee on Canadian Heritage, government position,
2540
Impending election and referendum, action for national unity,
government position, 111
Motion for recognition as distinct society
Aboriginal or treaty rights, 2453
Civil law tradition, 2452
First ministers conference, 2454
French-speaking majority. 2452
Minorities, 2453
Unemployment insurance system, 2453
Unique culture, 2452
Veto, 2453
Prime Minister's proposals, means of gaining necessary consent
of provinces, government position, 2363
Recognition as distinct society, m,2399. 2452-54. 2455, 2456
Rabin, the late Yitzhak. tribute to former Prime Minister of Israel.
2194

Regional development. application of similar rules in all provinces.
government position. 1183
Remembrance Day. st, 2227

Fairbairn, P.C., Hon. Joyce-Cont 'd
Revenue
Capital gains election, dissemination of information to public.
request for studies on effectiveness of measure, 1237
Income tax, capital gains election, effect on seniors. 1237
Revenue Canada
Amount of export tax paid by tobacco manufacturers, net losses to
federal treasury, government position. 1058
Changes to excise tax on tobacco products, inequality of treatment
of provinces, govemment position, 996
Rowe. the late Hon. Frederick George. tribute, 683-84
Saskatchewan, appointment of Lieutenant-Governor, nature of
appointment, government position, 322
Science, research and development, tax credits for research and
development, 994
Selection Committee, m in amdt, 17-18
Senate
Amendments to Bill C-22, refusai by Minister to appear before
Senate Committee. 1299-300
Bolduc, Maurice, felicitations on election as President of
l'Association professionnelle des sténographes officiels
du Québec, st. 1583
Distribution of Debates and Minutes to Members of the House of
Commons. 550, 551
House of Commons, changes to method of reporting committee
proceedings. availability to senators of computer link.
government position, 165I
Pearson International Airport. possibility of judicial inquiry,
government position. 1300, 1301
Prince Edward Island, appointment of new senator, government
position, 1453
Proposal for debate on foreign affairs and national defence,
request for commitment, 553
Public statements by Minister of Transport regarding motives of
certain senators, 1283, 1284, 1285, 1286
Position of Leader of the Government, 1298, 1299
Remarks by Minister of Transport, request for clarification, 874
Return to chamber of Deputy Leader of the Government,
st. 742-43
Value of independent senators, government position, 2092
Simard, Hon. Jean-Maurice, best wishes on recovery, 1283
Spicer, Erik J., Esq., tribute on retirement as Parliamentary Librarian
and designation as Parliamentary Librarian Emeritus.
276-77
Social affairs
Amount of funding available for child care strategy, government
position, 1376
Implementation of national child care strategy. government
position, 1375
Reform of child support systems, government position, 1357
Solicitor General
Efficacy of security arrangements at residence of Prime Minister
Government position. 2200
Request for results of investigation, 2270, 2271
Review of security arrangements at official residences,
publication of results, government position, 2200
RCMP marketing contract with Disney Corporation. request for
particulars, 1959
South Africa. free and democratic elections. monitoring by Canadian
delegation. 400
Status of Women
Anniversary of Privy Council decision. congratulations to winners
of 1995 Persons Awards, st. 2116
Request for breakdown of program spending for current and next
fiscal years. 1376
Sylvain, Hon. John. tribute on resignation from Senate. 2606
Tourism. effect of budget cuts. government position. 284-85
Training Initiatives Program. amount of funds available from
Human Resources )eveslopment. government position.
1633

Fairbairn, P.C., Hon. Joyce-Cont'd
Transport
Abandonment of holdings on Partridge Island, New Brunswick.
government position, 1534
Abolition of Atlantic Freight Assistance. possibility of notice to
stakeholders, 1212
Application of International Civil Aviation Organization
Standards at smaller airports. government position,
1520
Atlantic Region Freight Assistance Program, request for impact
analysis. govemment position, 1057
Request for answer. 1167
Automated navigational and weather systems, request for
documentation, government position. 1165
Automated Weather Observation Systems
Report of Senate Committee, request for response from
ministers, 2233, 2234
Condition of St. Lawrence Seaway. government policy, 97
Destaffing of lightstations in British Columbia
Environmental impact assessment. government position. 1040
Request for judicial inquiry, govemment position, 1134
Existence of any impediment to redevelopment of Pearson
Airport, government position. 1303
Failure of minister to properly brief Prime Minister on reports
respecting Pearson Airport Agreements, government
position. 1488
Federal-Provincial Strategic Highway Improvement Program
Canada-Nova Scotia Agreement, diversion of funds to
Cape Breton Project. government position, 1650
Discussions between ministers on diversion of funds from
Nova Scotia Highway Project, request for particulars.
1660
Diversion of funds to Cape Breton Project, possible
interpretation by Auditor General of Canada.
government position. 1650
Fulfilment of Red Book promises, government position, 1662
Introduction of toll booths on Trans-Canada Highway, 1661
Nova Scotia
Diversion of funds from designated project
Alternate methods of funding, government position, 1680
Knowledge of transaction by Prime Minister, government
position, 1679-80
Diversion of funds to projects not covered by agreements,
government position. 1680-81
Freezing of funds to await outcome of inquiry of Auditor
General, government position, 1708
Request for answers, 1926
Restoration of funding to designated project
Request for answer, 1961
Request for update. 1690, 1691, 1926
Return of funds to designated project, government position,
1651
Return of funds to designated highway project, government
position, 1662
Policy on diversion of funds to undesignated projects. request
for particulars, 1683
Propriety of intervention by Minister of Public Works.
govemment position, 1661
Report of Auditor General on diversion of funds
Government position. 2266
Request for tabling of pertinent documents. 2266
Importance of passage of Bill C-22 to development of Pearson
International Airport, government position, 1285
Institution of public inquiry, government position, 1472
Measure to terminate railway strike. considered in Comnittee of
the Whole. 1382
Merg er of Canadian Coast Guard with Department of Fisheries
and Oceans. goverinment position. 2112
Necessary repairs to Pcarson International Airport. governiment
position, 188

INDEX
Fairbairn, P.C., Hon. Joyce-Cont'd
Transport-Cont'd

Nominees to Canadian Airport Authority, government position.
913
Nova Scotia, funds for Wentworth Valley Highway Project,
government position, 1549
Pearson Airport Agreements, redevelopment of Terminals 1and 2,
request for information, 1471
Pearson International Airport
Authorship of departmental report, request for clarification,
1470
Definition of legislative solution, government position, 1471
Delay in redevelopment of Terminals 1 and 2, 1302
Discrepancies in Nixon Report, govemment position, 1520
Discussion held by members of Liberal election campaign
committee, government position, 1491
Evidence of Mr. Matthews before Senate committee,
government position, 2100
Extent of knowledge of Mr. Nixon at time of review,
government position, 1488
Function of Prime Minister at meeting with Matthews Group,
1530
Implications of alleged involvement of Prime Minister
Request for answer, 1111
Request for clarification, 1472
Instructions to Mr. Nixon on his mandate to review,
government position, 1470
Legislative solution, request for particulars, 1489
Legislative solution to dispute, government position, 1587,
1588
Meeting of Prime Minister with Matthews Group, request for
details, 1519
Personal knowledge of Leader of Government on policy
proposal, 1491
Possible revision of report of Robert Nixon, government
position, 1502
Public inquiry, government position, 1530
Refusal of minister to appear before Senate committee,
government position, 1519
Request for appearance of minister before Senate committee,
1521
Request for copies of all material or information on which
Mr. Nixon based his report, 1492
Request for copy of stamped receipt notation on Mr. Nixon's
report, 1502
Request for judicial inquiry, government position, 1489, 1490
Request for public inquiry, government position. 901-02
Request for tabling of lawyer's time dockets relating to meeting
with Matthews Group. 1502
Transport Canada study, request for particulars, 1491
Verbal statements of Minister of Transport, request for written
confirmation, 1471
Pearson International Airport
Cancellation of lease agreement, 1041
Cancellation of leases preventing redevelopment of Terminals 1
and 2, government position, 1490
Comments of minister on delay in renovations on Terminals 1
and 2, government position, 1585-86
Delay in redevelopment of Terminals 1 and 2, government
position. 1451. 1452
Implications of alleged involvement of Prime Minister, 1058
Importance of passage of Bill C-22 on development,
knowledge of Robert Nixon, government position, 1451
Influence of government actions on attracting future business,
1451
Motion to strike Special Committee to inquire into privatization
contracts. 1563-65
Request for government response. 1530
Possible negotiation of lease. government position. 986
Remaining impediments to redevelopment. I 132
Request for answers, 1531

Fairbairn, P.C., Hon. Joyce-Cont'd

Transport-Cont'd
Request for particulars on revenue from subleases, 1490
Transfer of administration to local airport authority, nature of
legal impediment, 1500, 1501
Pearson International Airport redevelopment, alleged involvement
of Prime Minister, 1451
Request for further answer, 1166
Pensions of Route Canada employees, delay in resolution of
dispute, status of negotiations, government position.
1728
Government response, 2091
Privatization of Canadian National. reopening of negotiations with
Canadian Pacific, government position, 1255
Proposed sale of Halifax shipyards, government position, 114
Proposed study of Atlantic Canada freight rates, government
position, 554
Railways work stoppage
Longer term arrangements for dispute settlements. government
position, 1374
Status of negotiations at Canadian Pacific Rail and VIA Rail.
1360
Relationship of Canadian Airport Authority to development of
Pearson International Airport, 913
Reliability of Labrador helicopters on search and rescue missions,
government position, 604
Removal of emergency response capability from smaller airports
Difference in standards of safety, government position, 1532
Government position, 1520
Repairs to Ports of Halifax and Saint John, government position,
97
Search and rescue helicopter replacement program
Purchase of units without tender, govemment position, 2400
Status of EH-101 contract
Government position. 2320
Nature of milestone payments, 2349
Suitability and safety of replacement units, government
position, 2401
Search and rescue, replacement of Sea King and Labrador
helicopter fleets
Effect of replacements on viability of Canadian Forces Base
Shearwater, performance standards for replacements,
1340
Status of EH-101 contract, government position, 2118
Search and rescue, replacement of Sea King helicopter fleet
Documents tabled, 603
Government position, 422, 453, 454, 604
Strengthening national highway standards for truck safety,
government position, 1521
Timing of vote on motion to strike Special Committee, request for
response, 1530, 1531
Trans-Canada Highway
Federal-provincial agreements currently in force, request for
particulars, 1680
Proposed toll booths in Nova Scotia, government position,
1839
Underutilized infrastructure at Canadian ports, need for proposed
new berthage and cargo sheds in Minister's riding. 1472
Transport and Communications, directions to Canadian
Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission
on direct-to-home satellite distribution, comments of
Minister of Canadian Heritage, government position,
1692
Treasury Board. possible amendments to Members of Parliament
Retiring Allowances Act. government position, 1041
United Nations
Human rights in China, defeat of resolution. request for copy of
text. 2211
International Day for the Elimination of Racial Discrimination.
235

Fairbairn, P.C., Hon. Joyce-Cont'd
United Nations-Cont'd
Nuclear non-prolîferation treaty. vote on reaffirmation.
government position. 1599
Peacekeeping in Bosnia. participation in rapid reaction force.
governiment position. 1802
Possible changes to application of veto. govemnment policy. 1802
Resolution to hait nuclear testing
Government objection to wording in text. request for
particulars. 2234
Request for copy of offending text. 2209
Wîthdrawal of co-sponsorship, government position. 2208.
2209
Veterans affairs. aboriginai veterans. request for action on report of
Standing Senate Committee. government position. 1728
Veterans Appeai Board, Order in Council appointment. government
position. 554
Victory in Europe. fiftieth anniversary commemorating the cessation
of hostilities. st. 1581
West Coast Ports Operations. 1994 bill C-10. 64-66: considered in
Committee of the Whole. 67. 68
Arbitration. 65
Collective bargaining. 65
Costs of dispute, 65
Final offer selection. 65
Layotfs. 65
Penalties for non-compliance. 65
Wages. 65
West Coast Ports Operations. 1995 bill C-74, 1316-18, 1324, 1333
Collective bargainng. 1316. 1317
Conciliation officer. 1317
Grain, 1317
Industrial inquiry commissions. 1318
International Longshoremen's and Warehousemen's Union. 1316
Mediator-arbitrator. 1318
Retiring ailowances. 1317
"~Side documents", 1317
Water-front Foremen's Employers' Association, i1316
Western Economic Diversification Canada, report of Auditot
Generai. mandate of agency, government policy. 2268,
2269
Winter Oiympîcs 2002, candidacy of Quebec City. 1762. 1763
World Trade Organîzation Agreement Implementation bill C-57,
1074
Sugar industry. 1074
Youth
Employment and training, student summer employment program.
355
Employment programs. govemment position. 504
Fundîng of training initiatives. g-overnment position. 356
Katimavik. reestablishment of progr-am. 358
Family violence, comments made by Senator Cools on International
Women's Day, st. 1337-38
Fane, Gary, Director, Canadian Autoworkers Union
Transport. measure to terminate railway strike. considered in
Committee of the Whole, 1391-93, I394. 1395-96.
1397-99, 1400, 1401
Farm

Improvement and Marketing Cooperatives Loans
amendment bill C-75. jr. 1689: 2r, 1718-19: ref to com.
1719; rep without amdt. 1739: 3r, 1763: î.a.. chap. 13.
1995. 1794
Aegiegate principal ainounit. 1718
AnnLî:îl boan recistrations. 1718
Canol:î. 1718
Ciedît. 1718
D)ivs ification. 171I8
Inx'cxtiieit, 1718

Farin Improvement and Marketing Cooperatives Loans-Conr'd
Speakers: Senators
Gustafson. Leonard J., 1718-19
Oison, H.A.. 1718
Federal Business Development Bank, tributes on 5Orh anniversary.
st. 910
and
Federal
Fiscal
Arrangements
Federal-Provincial
Post-Secondary Education and Heaith Contributions
amendment bill C-3. Ir. 184; 2r, 222-25, ref to coin,
225; rep without amdt. 248, 3r, 267: r.a.. chap. 2, 1994,
298
Capping. 222
Ceiiin. 223
Equalization progrTam. 222, 223. 224, 225
Five-province standard measures. 223
Five-year renewal. 223
Program floors. 223
"Tax-back issue". 223
Tax base changes. 223
Speakers: Senators
De Bane. Pierre. 222-23
Moigat. Gildas L.. 267
Tkachuk. David, 223-25
Federal-provincial relations
Administration of infrastructure program. government policy. 95,
(r) 138
Agreement on internai trade. nature and timeliness of amendments
to bill, government position. qu. 2210
Conduct of security services in Quebec. government operations.
qu. 1742-43
Effect of enforcement provisions of agreement on internai trade
ti ade.
bill on
interprovinciai
implementation
aovernment position. qu. 1715, (r) 1992-93
Effeci of federai policy on pharmaceuticai industry in Quebec.
qu. 398
Infrastructure Progam. Hay Report. presentation of petition, 161
Status of relations. government position, qu. -397-98
Felicitations to Nova Scotians on recent election successes, st, 21i08
Fergusson, the Hon. Muriel McQueen
Tribute to first temnale Speaker of the Senate. st. 2555
Finance
Duplication of programs with provinces, governiment position,
qu. 874-75
Fiscal program update. possibility of tax increases. government
position. qu. 874
Taxation of registered retîrement savings plans, st, 918. 930
Firearms bill
Availability t0 other provinces of similar arrangements. costs to
taxpayers. government position, qu. 2232, (r) 2351i
Funding arrangements with govemrment of Nova Scotia. request for
particulars. qu. 2232. (r) 2351
Letter inviting submissions to travelling panels of senators. st, 2206
Presentation of petitions. 1741, 1958. 2045
Statement. 21i65
See also Gun control leg-isiation
Firearms bill C-68. I r. i1760-61: 2r, 1811i 24. i1904-I2: ret to com.
1912: m to instruct comimittee to table final report. 2109,
2121-24: mnin amidi (Lynch-Staunton> adopted. 2124-25:
m.ý as5 amended. adopted. 2 125: rcp with i14 arndts.
2243-46. 2252-62. 2320-42: mi in arndt (SparrossI. neg
on dix'. 2343-44: mi for-adoption of tep). neL, on di\. 2344:
3r. on dix. 2344-45: t.a.. chap. 39. 1995. 2411
Aborîinmal and ti eatv i-hts. 1820). 1821

INDEX
Firearms bill C-68--Cont'd
Aboriginal hunters. 1821. 1907
Aboriginal language speakers, 1822
Aboriginal peoples. 1813. 1823, 1907. 1910
Cost. 1908
Crime, 1815, 1818
Domestic violence, 1906
"Firearmns possession certificates". 1813
Firearms registry. 1811. 1812
Homicides. 1816
Hunting and trapping. 1813
Illegal gun use, 1815
Long firearms, 1921
Lost or stolen firearms, 1819
New Zealand. 1823
Outfitting and tourism. 1822
Penalties. 1811
Registration, 1813. 1817. 1819. 1906, 1907. 1908. 1909. 1910
Self-government. 1821
Storage. 1815. 1911
Suicide, 1812
Sustenance hunters. 1813
Violence, 1812. 1817
Speakers: Senators
Adams, Willie, 1910-Il. 1912
Berntson, Eric Arthur. 1761
Carstairs, Sharon, 1811-14
Fairbairo, Joyce, 2121-23
Gauthier, Jean-Robert. 1912
Ghitter, Ron. 1814-19, 1907. 1909
Gigantès, Philippe Deane. 1907. 1909
Graham, B. Alasdair. 1760. 1761. 2124-25
Lucier, Paul, 1819-20
Lynch-Staunton, John. 1760. 1761, 2123-24
Ottenheimer, Gerald R., 1820
Roux, Jean-Louis, 1904-07. 1908. 19 10
St. Germain. Gerry. 1823-24. 1907, 1909
Spivak. Mira. 1908-09
Watt. Charlie. 1820-23, 1909- 10
Firearms bill, inquiry, 2348. 2372-76
Domestic violence, 2373
Gender feminist theory. 2374. 2375
Marksmanship, 2375
Spousal abuse, 2373
Spousal homicide. 2374
Speaker: Senator
Cools. Anne C., 2348, 2372, 2373-76
Fireanims legisiation, st. 1545-46. 2263
Comnients made in House of Commons. st. 1738
Comments of Liberal Member of Parliament. st, 1631. 1659-60,
1703-04. 1712
Criteria and selection process for appearing as witness before
committee, govemment position. qu, 1548
Presentation of resolution, st, 2242
Refusai by House of Commons committee to hear testimony of
renowned firearms expert, governiment position,
qu. 1548. (r) 1617-18
Reluctance of Nova Scotia premier to take position, st, 1759
Remarks made by Hon. Allan Rock, 1572-73
Speaker's ruling, 1573
Statement attributed Io Prime Minister in caucus on voting of
dissenting members. govemment position. qu. 1777
Firefighters of North America, tributes. st. 1545
First Nations Government bill S-10). 1r. 1487. 1601-02: m foi 2n. 1618;
ni to delùr adJourned [o await ruling of Speaker. 1618-22:
Speakcr's niling. 1669-70; 2r deterred. 1670

First Nations Governaient bill S-1O-Cont'd
Royal Recommendation, 1619. 1620. 1621. 1622
Speakers: Senators
Berntson. Eric Arthur. 1601, 1619, 1670
Cools. Anne C.. 1620
Corbin. Eymard G.. 1619. 1622
Gauthier, Jean-Robert, 1601. 1602, 1618, 1619, 1620, 1621, 1670
Graham, B. Alasdair. 1618. 1620
Kelly. William M.. 1602
Lynch-Staunton. John. 1620. 1622
Prud'homme. Marcel, 1602, 1620
Stewart, John B.. 1619, 1622
Thériau1t, L. Norbert. 1619
Tkachuk, David. 1602, 1618, 1620-21
Fisheries
Aid for laid-off workers under the Atlantic Groundfish Strategy.
request for statistics, qu. 1716
Atlantic Groundfish Program. change in benefits. government
position. qu, 304. (r) 435
Collapse of Atlantic fishery, longer-termn provision for laid-off
workers under the Atlantic Groundfish Strategy.
government position. qu. 1715-16, (r) 1928-29
North Atlantic fishery. presence of Spanish warships accompanying
fishing vessels. government position. qu. 1359
Presence of Canadian naval vessels on Grand Banks, government
position. qu. 1359
Significance of presence of Spanish warships in relation to
negotiations. qu. 1360
Species and configuration of fish exported to Japan. tabled. 1206
Support for vessels during moratorium. qu. 334. (r) 424
Fisheries and oceans
1993 Canadian fish exports. tabled. 239
Cuts in departmental budget, demise of Winnipeg freshwater science
teams. govemnment position, qu, 1842. (r) 2080-81
Establishment of Industry Renewal Boards. government position on
buy-back of quotas and licences, qu. 305-06. (r) 424
Extension of jurisdiction beyond 200-mile limit. government policy.
qu, 94-95, (r) 137-38
Memorandum of understanding to transfer freshwater science teams
to Department of Environment, government position.
qu. 1842
Timeliness of annual departmental report. governiment policy,
qu. 2366
Fisheries, Standing Senate Commnittee
Authonity to examine annual report of Department of Fisheries and
Oceans, 379, adopted, 411
Authority to, extend date for final report. 1679, adopted. 1701-02
Membership
See Joumnals of the Senate
Reports
I st, expenses incurred during 3rd Session, 34th Parliament,
tabled. 109
See Journals of the Senate
2nd, annual report of Department of Fisheries and Oceans on the
Atlantic groundfish fishery tabled, 2415. adopted, 2632
Flicker, David, V.icePresident of Government Affairs, CP
Transport. measure to terminate railway strike, considered in
Committee of the Whole. 1419
Folk of the Sea, Newfoundland perfonning arts group. congratulations.
st. 909
Foreign affairs
Celebration of filîieth anniversary of diplomnatie relations between
Canada and Cuba. st, 1335
Econornic assistance 10 Middle East. government position. qu. 50I.
(r) 586-87

Foreign affairs-Cuit 'd
G-7 summit in Halifax, position paper flot submitted for
parliamentary debate. governmrent position. qu. 1741
Human rights issues, governiment policy. qu. 285-86
Military intervention in Haiti and in Burma. g-overnment policy.
qu. 628-29. (r) 851
Negottations towards inclusion of Chile in NAFTA. request for
progress report. qu. 1960. (r) 2114
New directives on foreign service travel directives. request foiparticulars. qu. 168 1, (r) 2073-74
Projected cost of G-7 summit in Halifax. request for details.
qu. 1761-62
Proposed visît of Chairman Arafat of Palestine. requirement for
ministerial permit. govern ment position, qu. 501-02.
(r) 587
Remarks of Senator Stollery on Mexico
Possibility of Canada's withdrawal from NAFTA
Government position. qu. 1522, (r) 2048
Request for answer. I1706
Response (r-om Mexican Embassy. governiment position. qu. 1522
Report of' Auditor General on foreign service travel directives.
g1overnment position. qu. 1681 . (r) 2073
Request for newly appointed Ambassador to lsrael and Cyprus to
appear before committee. qu. 1983-84
Return to demnocracy in Nigeria. efforts of' department, qu. 1744,
(r) 2075-76
Sales abroad of CANDU reactors. request for status report on
environmental and financial concernis. qu. 1777,
(r) 2077-78
Sterra Leone, proposed national elections. contributions to support
f'und, government position. qu. 2466-67
Strategy for G-7 Summit. recommendations of Joint Commnittee
Reviewing Canada's Foreign Polîcy. st. 1631
See o/su Foreign relations

Foreign Afi'airs, Standing Senate Committee
Authority to examine various consequences of' European Union.
adopted. 1678
Authority to extend date for final report. 1356. 1632
Autbority to meet durîng sittings of the Senate. 912. 972. 988-89.
1084-85. 1854. 1925, 2230. 2416. 2487
Autboriîy to mionitor and report upon the Canada-United States Free
Trade Ag-reenient and the North Amnerican Free Trade
Agreement. 354: adopted. 390-91
Canada-United States Free Trade Agreement and North American
Free Trade Agreement. authority to table final report.
1924
Membersbip
See Journals of the Senate
Reports
lst, expenses incurred during 3rd Session. 34th Parliament,
tabled. 77
See Journals of the Senate
2nd. Crown Liability and Proceedings amendment btll C-4
without amdt. 450
3rd. Budget. Canada-United States Free Trade Agreement and the
North American Free Trade Agreement, 549. adopted.
589
See Journals of the Senate
4th. World Trade Organization Agreement Implementation
bill C-57. without amdit but with observations an(]
recommendations. 1163-64
5th. Department of Foreign affairs and International Trade
bill C-47. without amndt. 1355-56
6th. Budget. study re Euiupean Unimon, 1798, adopted. 1885
Se'c Ju al s of the Se nate
7ib. Cheinical Vseapun.. Convention 1loîplenmentat ion bill C-87.
V. thOut amdt. 192ý
8th. Fi-ce Ti ade in the Anei icas. conf irmation ut tablinLg ut îcpuî t.
2067

Foreign Affairs, Standing Senate Comrnittee-Cont,'d
Special Economie Measures (Haîti) Regulations. 1993, report ret to
com. 1598
Foreign policy
Congratulations on government initiatives. st. 685-86
Human rights in relation to trade. st. 1797-98
Foreign relations
G-7 Halifax summit. request for tabling of pertinent documents.
qu. 1839-40
Forestry
Clavoquot Sound
Grant by CIDA to protest group. qu. 873. (r) 987
Grant by CIDA to protest group against loggîing. qu. 882
Government position. request for answer. qu. 935
Forrestaîl, Hon. J. Michael
Atlantic Canada Opportunities
Agency. Cornwallis Park
Development Agency. request for answer to order paper
question on KPMG report. qu. 2209- 10
Budget 1995, elimination of Atlantic freig-ht rate subsidies. st, 1295
Business of the Senate. 1370
Canada Post Corporation. lease of premises in Sydney, Nova Scotia,
intervention ot Minister of Public Works, qu. 1982-83.
(r)2083
Request for answer. 20 10
Sec appendix p. 2084
Canada Post Corporation. review by Price Waterhouse of contracts
in Sydney, Nova Scotia. request for particulars.
tabled. 2493
Canada Remembers. st, 1570
Fiftieth anniversary of D-Day. st. 581-82
Canada's Armed Forces. st. 1371
Canada's Defence Polîcy. Special Joint Committee report. 94(1.
1142-43
"Cornwallis concept". 1142
Peacekeeping. 1142
Process of joint committee. 1143
Ship-bomne search and rescue helicopters. 1142, 1143
CN Commercial îzation bill C-89. 1915-16. 1929-30
Felîcîtations to Nova Scotians on recent election successes. st. 2108
Goods and Services Tax. faîlure of governiment to abolisb tax.
timing for resignation of Deputy Prime Minister.
q0. 1532-33
Justice, sale of Airbus aircraft to Air Canada. alleged conspiracy to
defraud federal governiment. request for tablîng of letter
to Swiss authorities. qu. 2250
Request for answer. qu. 2317
Macquarrie. Hon. Heath. tributes on retirement. 722-23
Members of Parliament Rettring Allowances amendment bill C-85
National detence
Compensation for cancelled EH-101 contrats
Government position. qu. 1503. (r) 1554-55
Request for particulars. qu. 1713. (r) 2074
Initiative of NATO concerning peacekeeping in Bosnia.
participation by Canadian Armed Forces. governinent
position. qu. 1741
Peacekeepîng in Bosnîa
Participation in UN rapîd deployment force. government
position. qu. 1761
Request for parliamentary debate on increase in size of force,
govemment position. qu. 1743. (r) 2091-92
Sttsof Canadians held hostage. possible discussion of set-up
of' UN force at G-7 summit. governiment position.
q0. 1778
Status of troops detained in Visoko. govrci nent position.
Resîructuî ne ut Canadian Aried Fuirces. -esers e
ZequLeSi for- an.ss ci. ctu. 15(02
Req [les't toi- terni., ut iet erence ut Cumini
uin. (l. I 74
Search and Rescue Hclîcupter Replacement Piugi ans

INDEX
Forrestall, Hon. J. Mfichael-Conr d
National defence-Conit d
Nature of reduction in capability. request for particulars.
qu. 2231-32
Rationale for choice. qu. 2231
Request for tabling of statement of requirements and report on
search and rescue capability requirements. qu. 2363-64
Search and rescue. replacement of Sea King and Labrador
helicopter fleets
Government position. qu. 1098. (r) 1191
Training of First Mechanical Brigade for NATO exercises.
governmrent position. qu, 1741-42
National Defence Policy, proposed Special Joint Committee
Appointment. 153
Nova Scotia
Congratulations tu Dr. John Hamm on election as leader of
provincial Progressive Conservative Party. st, 2164
Industrial marine products. relocation of plant from North Sydney
to Amherst, possible delay in implementation of
decision, government position, qu. 2349
Reform Party. bid to become Officiai Opposition in House of
Commons. st, 2315-16
Remembrance Day. st. 909
Solicitor General, review of security arrangements at official
residences. publication of results. government position.
qu. 2200
Superintendent of Bankruptcy, responsibilities regarding NSC Diesel
Power Inc., tabled. 1601
Transport
Abolition of Atlantic Region Freight Assistance. possibility of
notice to stakeholders. qu. 1212, (r) 1473-74
Ad Hoc Parliamentary Committee on Lightstations. consultations
in British Columbia, inquiry, 1155-56
Costs to keep lighthouse family, 1156
Destafflng of lighthouses. request for judicial inquiry. govemment
position. qu, 1133-34, (r) 1191
Federal Provincial Strategic Highway Improvement Programn
Canada-Nova Scotia Agreement, diversion of funds to Cape
Breton Project, govemrment position. qu, 1650, (r) 2046
Discussions between ministers on diversion of funds from
Nova Scotia Highway Project, request for particulars.
qu, 1660, (r) 2046
Nova Scotia
Diversion of funds, request for examination by Auditor
General of Canada, motion, 1678, 1696-98
Fleur-de-lis Trail. 1696. 1697
Highway 104, 1697
Diversion of funds from designated project. alternate
methods of funding, govemrment position. qu, 1680.
(r) 2047
Freezing of funds tu await outcome of inquiry of Auditor
General, governiment position. qu, 1708, (r) 2048
Restoration of funding to designated project
Request for answer. qu, 1961
Request for update, qu, 1690. 1926, (r) 1993
Propriety of intervention by Minister of Public Works,
govemnment position, qu. 1660-61
Report of Auditor General on diversion of funds, govemnment
position, qu, 2266
Pertinent documents tabled. 2559
Merger of Canadian Coast Guard with Department of Fisheries and
Oceans. governmrent position, qu, 2112, (r) 2252
Nova Scotia. funds for Wentworth Valley Highway Project.
g0verniment position. qu. 1548-49. (r) 1709-10
Pensions of Route Canada employees. delay in resolution of dispute.
status of negotiations
Government position. qu. 1727-28
Government response. qu. 2090-91
Proposed sale of Halifax shipyards. government position. qu. 114.
(r) 221

Forrestail, Hon. J1.
Michael Ctont 71
Pensions of Route Canada employees-Cont 'd
Proposed study of Atlantic Canada freight rates. government
position. qu. 55-3-54. (r) 834
Search and rescue helicopter replacement program. status of
EH-l0i contract
Govemnment position. qu. 2320. (r) 2609
Nature of milestone payments. qu. 2349, (r) 2609
Searcli and rescue. replacement of Sea King and Labrador
helicopter fleets
Effeet of replacements on viability of Canadian Forces Base
Shearwater performance standards for replacements.
qu. 1340. (r) 2071
Status of EG- 101 contract, govemment position. qu. 2118
Strategic Highway Improvement Program. application of tolls on
Canadian highways. tabled. 1695
Strengthening national hig-hway standards for truck safety.
governiment position. qu. 1520-2 1. (r) 1745
United Nations. nuclear non-proliferation treaty. vote on
reaffirmation, governiment position, qu, 1599.
(r) 1636-37
West Coast Ports Operations. 1994 bill C-10. considered in
Committee of the Whole. 73
West Coast Ports Operations. 1995 bill C-74. 1316-18: considered in
Committee of the Whole. 1329-30
Fine. 1321
Foremen. 1321
Forum for Young Canadians, st, 1371
Appointment of Mark Audcent as chair of the board. st, 870
Fournier, the late Hon. Edgar (deceased Apr. 29/94)
Tributes, 447-48. 449

Francophones outside Quebec
Increase in population, promotion of French language in concert
with federal government. st. 2130
The referendum, a reminder of the urgent need for a partnership
with the province. st. 2089
Frith, Hon. Royce (resigned Aug. 30/94)
Adjourrment. 570
Auditor General amendment bill C-207, 628. 662-63. 664
Four reports: one annual. three others. 663
Borrowing Authority. 1994-95 bill C-14, 288-91. 292. 293. 297
Balance, 289. 290. 291
Calculation of charges. 288. 291
Domestic debt program. 289
Expiration. 288
Foreign exchange accounit earnings, 288
Personal income tax. 289. 290
Reductions. 289
Relationship between borrowing authority and budget. 289
Rohi over treasury bis, 288
Tax base, 289. 290
Budget, Statement of Minister of Finance, inquiry. 2 10
Business of the Senate. 651. 800
Adjourrnment. 764
Canadian Film Development Corporation amendment bill C-3 1,
658-60. 661-62. 729
American film makers. 660
lnvestment bankers. 659
Loan guarantees. 659
Tax breaks. 661
Telefilm Canada. 659
Chaput-Rolland. Hon. Solange. tributes on retireinent. 414-15
Coastal Fisherics Protection amendinent bill C-29. 451. 452
Constitutional implications of unilateral provincial attemipt to declare
sovLeinty or separation. inquiry. 769, 797-99

Frith, Hon. Royce-Gont 'd
Criminal Code, Coastal Fisheries Protection amendment bill C-8.
360-63. 365. 451
Coastal fisheries protection. 360. 363
Criminal Code. Coastal Fîsheries Protection amendment bill C-8.
360-63. 365. 451
Consultation document. Department of Justice. 361
Deadly for-ce. 360. 361. 362
Disabling force. 362..363
Fleeing suspect. 360. 361. 362
Felonies. 361
International law. 365
Peace officers workîng in penitentiaries. 360. 361.ý 362
Police. 361
Davey. Hon. Keith. tribute on twenty-eighth anniversary of
appointmeni to Senate. st. 159
Energy, the Environment and Natural Resources Committee
National Protectcd Areas Strategy. authority 10 conduci study.
389-90
Euthanasia and Assisted Suicide Special Committee report
2nd. Power to hold occasional meetings in camnera. adopted. 744,
745
Foreign Affairs Committee
Authority to monitor and report upon the Canada-United States
Free Trade Agreement and the North Amerîcan Free
Trade Agreement, 391
Kerr. Jean. felicitations on retirement from Senate. 783
Lang, Hon. Daniel A.. tributes on retîrement. 614. 615
Legual and Constitutional Aftairs Commîttee reports
2nd. Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Suspension. 1994
bill C- 18. 440-41. 485. 487. 490. 494. 498
5th. General Security Insurance Company of Canada bill S-3. 483
8th. Pearson International Airport Agreements bill C-22, 789.
802-06. 807-08. 811, 812. 813, 815
National Finance Committee report
4th. Supplementary Estimates (A). 1994-95, 625
Corporate Services Program. 625
Pearson International Airport Agreements bill C-22, 695, 771-72.
773-75, 778. 824. 827. 828. 829, 832. 833
Bill of Rights. 775
Char-ter of Rîghts and Freedoms. 695. 774
Negotiations. 771
-Notwithstanding " clause. 695. 774
"Rule oh law". 772. 774
Point of order (Senators' Statements). 546
Senate. role ol the opposition. st, 598
South Africa. tirst democratic elections, inquiry. 568
Transport and Communications Committee. marine safety. m to
expand role of lightstations. 233. 234
Staffing. 233
Tribute on retirement as High Commissioner 10 London, st. 2608
Tributes on resignation from the Senate and appointment as High
Commîssioner for Canada to the United Kingdom.
839-43.,844
Veterans affairs. m to provide site for Canadian Vietnam Veterans'
Memorial. 507
Point of order. 431-32. 433
Yukon First Nations Land CIaims Agreement bill C-33. 756, 784-85.
786
Yukon First Nations Self-government bill C-34, 759-60. 788
Citizenship. 759. 785
Instrumentality of polîtîcal power. 760
Law-making powers. 759
Subsequent claims. 759
Supremce chief. 760
Voîîng rig-hts. 760

Gatineau. don atiomns req ueted loi- icti nr oh i ccoî lirec. st. 1499-5(00

Gauthier, Hon. Jean-Robert (introduced in the Senate Nov. 29/94).
991-92
Appropriation No. 3. 1994-95 bill C-63. 1098-99, 1112
Appropriation No. 2. 1995-96 bill C-97. 1751-52
Budgetary expendîture. 1752
Non-budgetaiy expenditure. 1752
Program review 1752
Citizenship and immigration. literacy courses offered in French
language. st. 1570-71
Constitutional Amendments bill C-110. Special Senate Commitcee
report. 2571-73
David. Hon. Paul, tributes on retirement from the Senate. 1161
Defence. acquisition ot nuclear-powered submarines. governiment
position. qu. 1634
Department of Foreign Affairs and International Trade bill C-47.
1220-21
Change department's officiaI name. 1221
International organizations. 1220
Firearms bill C-68. 1912
First Nations Government bill S-10. 1601. 1602. 1618, 1619, 1620.
1621, 1670
Royal Recommendation. 1619
Francophones outside Quebec
Jncrease in population, promotion of French language in concert
with federal government. st. 2130
The referendum, a reminder of the urgent need l'or a partnership
with the province. st. 2089
InternaI Economy, Budgets and Administration Committee report
22nd. respecting m 10 print Volume I of' Special Joint Commiîtee
on Reviewing Canada's Foreign Policy. 1603-04. 1607
International Assembly of French-Speaking Parliamentarians
Exchange of information and seminar held in Port-au-Prince.
Haîti. st. 2346-47
Executive meeting held in Porto Novo. Benin. report îabled. 12-81
Meeting beld in Beirut. Lebanon. report of' Canadian Section
tabled. 1801
Report of Canadian delegation and tinancial report of Twenty-first
session held in O>ttawa and Quebec City, 2501
Report ol Canadian section andi financial report of 22nd session oh'
General American Assembly. 2416
Seminar beld in Port-au-Prince, report tabled. 2501
La Cité collégiale. officiaI inauguration. st. 2099
La Francophonie. sixth summit held in Cotonou. Benin, st. 2433
Legaal and Constitutional Affairs Committee
Motion instructing com to table final rep re C-69. point oh ordcr.
2427
Report
l6th. Firearms bill C-68. with 14 amdts. 2332-33
Registration. 2332. 2333
Legal and Constitutional Affairs. schedule of work of the committee.
position of chairman. qu. 2364, 2365
Literacy
OECD international survey. link between adult literacy and
cmphoyment. government position. qu. 2438
Visibility of lîîeracy secretariat. government position. qu. 24-39
National unîty
Quebec referendum. coverage of events by CBC French network.
st. 2415
OECD international survey on adult literacy. înquîry 2443
OfficiaI langýuages
Access of francophones to Internet network. 1652
Dissociation from a stand taken by a member of Parliainent.
st. 1674-75
Pr-oliteration ot French telcvisîon stations in Ontario. commenîs in
miedia. st. 2459
Official Languages Act, necessity of C\ aluaîing the law. inquiry.
Pearson Airpoî t Agcrct.Special Senate Conirntîce report
1,i. Budei. 17701 71
Pepin. IlC the lae Hon. JcLin-Lue. îî ibute. 2064- 65
Prcicî cs of ParIliaient. request loi- dcli nîtion. clu. 1168.
( 14 (05

INDEX
Gauthier, Hon. Jean-Robert-Cont 'd
Privileges, Standing Rules and Orders, point of order, 1747
Privileges. Standing Rules and Orders Committee. m to study and
report upon decision of House of Commons 10 cease
publication of commitîee proceedingas. 1595, 1686-88,
1755
Quebec. mnto recognize as distinct society, 2530-31
Reviewing Canada's Foreign Policy
Motion to print Volume 1 of Special Joint Committee Report.
1313
Ruling by Speaker of the House of Commons, point of order.
1015. 1017-18
Reviewing Canada's Foreign Policy, response of government to
report on Special Joint Committee, inquiry, 1211.
1258-61
Arts and culture, 1260
Humant rights, 1260
International Assistance Envelope. 1260
Rule of law. 1260
Senate. impact of decision of House of Commons to cease
publication of committee proceedings. inquiry. 1526,
1592-94, 1595, 1646-47
Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms, 1593
Cominittees as part of parliamentary system. 1646
Constitutional rights. 1592
Cost-sharing, 1592. 1593
Duplication of services. 1594
Commxittee clerks. 1595
Purchasing, 1595
Security, 1595
Transportation, 1595
Interpretation. 1593. 1594, 1646
Official Languages Act, ls93Savings. 1593
Translation, 1593, 1646
Senate, status of Senator Kinsella. qu. 2091
West Coast Ports Operations. 1995 bill C-74, considered in
Comm-ittee of the Whole, 1329

General Agreement on TarifTs and '[rade
Application of rules bo agricultural marketing structures. inquiry, 512
Intellectual property rights and Third World agricultural
development. inquiry. 1450, 1513-15
Ethiopia's Seeds of Survival program, 1514
Foreign aid. 1514
Gene banks, 1514
Intellectual property protection, 1514
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, 1514
Mexico, 1514
UN Convention on Biodiversity
World prices, 1514
Speaker: Senator
Spivak, Mira, 1513-14

General Security Insurance Company of Canada bill S-3. Ir. 78;
2r. 123-24. 173; ref to coin, 173; interim rep, 482-83;

rep without amdt, 483-, 3r, 517; interim rep adopted. 517;
passed by Commons without amdt, 761; r.a. 773
Mouvement des caisses populaires et d'économie Desjardins. 123,

124
Presentation of petition. 42
Speaker: Senator

Grimard. Normand. 123-24
German Canadian Congress, tour of northern Germnan states. st. 352

Gerussi, the late Bruno, tnibutes. st. 2397

Ghitter, Hon. Ron
Address in reply to Speech from the Throne. 59, 81-84
Budget 1995. elimination of Public Utilities Income Tax Transfer
Act, effect on Province of Alberta. government
position, qu. 1251-52
Budget, state of the economy, governiment position. qu. 1226

Canada Oil and Gas Operations. Canada Petroleum Resources,
National Energy Board amendment bill C-6, 380
Canada Petroleum Resources amendment bill C-25, 847
Competitive bidding process, 847
Jobs, 847
Norman Wells, 847
Royalties, 847

Canadian Heritage, Expo 2005, report of independent evaluators,
decision based on politics or menit, government
position. qu, 1521-22, (r) 1600
Economy, budget paper prepared by Reform Party, st, 1235-36
Electoral Boundaries Commission, suspension of operation under
proposed legislation, proposed use of closure,
government position , qu. 284
Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Suspension. 1994 bill C-18.
336-38

Alberta, 336, 338
Equality of voting power, 336. 337
lmpartiality, 336
Partisanship, 336. 338

Redistribution process. 337
Representation by population. 336. 337
Energy, proposed carbon tax, government policy qu, 48
Expo 2005
Announcement of host city. government position, qu. 1574, 1707
Selection of site, governiment position. qu. 1926
Firearms bill, st, 2165
Firearms bill C-68. 1814-19. 1907. 1909
Crime, 1815, 1818
Homicides. 1816
Illegal gun use, 1815
Registration, 1817, 1907
Safe storage. 1815
Violence. 1817
Firearmns legislation, st, 1545-46
Comnients made in House of Commons. st, 1738
Comments of Liberal Member of Parliamnent, st, 1631, 1659-60.
1703-04, 1712
Criteria and selection process for appearing as witness before
committee, govemment position. qu, 1548
Refusai by House of Commons Committee to hear testimony of
renowned firearms expert. government position,
qu, 1548, (r) 1617-18
Remarks made by Hon. Allan Rock. 1572. 1573
Govemnment of Canada, human rights policies, inquiry 550, 640-43
Humant rights education. 643
International Institute on Human Rights and Democratie
Development, 641. 643
Multilaterals, 643
Tiananmen Square, 641, 642
Trading partners. 643
Universal Declaration of Human Rights. 641. 643
Human rights
Canada's historie leadership role, si, 544-45
Further incarceration of Chinese dissident. govemnment position,
qu. 2504, 2505
Hiring by Canadian International Development Agency of former
Guatemnalan General as consultant. government
position. qu. 1634. (r) 1685
Three Gorges Dam Project
Displacement of Chinese citizens. government position.
qu. 913,.914,.(r) 1088-89
spending, effeet
on
Infrastructure program., government
enmployment. renovations to athietie facilities in
Edmonton and Calgary. qu. 359. (r) 850

Ghitter, Hon. Ron-Cont 'd
Justice
Firearms registration bill. availability of copies to senators.
government position. qu. 1215, st. 1223
Gun control legisiation, financial self sutficiency of registration
program. government position. qu. 1662, (r> 1989
Legal and Constîtional Affairs Committee report
l6th. Firearms bill C-68, with 14 amdts. 2256-59. 2260-61, 2262.
Aboriginal peoples. 2258
Confiscation without compensation, 2260
Delayed implementation. 2259, 2261
Museums, 2262
Opting oui clause. 2260
Transport
Pearson International Airport. implications of alleged involvemeni
of Prime Minister. request for answer. qu. 1111
Pearson International Airport. implications of alleged involvement
of Prime Minister. qu. 1057-58, (r) Il136
Winter Olympies 2002, candidacy of Quebec City. st. 1613

Gigantès, Hon. Philippe Deane
Address in reply to Speech from the Throne. 9-12
Budget
Proposed closure of Royal Military College of St-Jean
Question of prîvilege. 227
ReversaI of decision. governiment position. 219
Statement of Minister of Finance, inquiry, 211.ý 266
Business of the Senate, 65 1
Canada Student Financial Assistance bill C-28, 705-07, 712
Alternative payment formula. 706
Canada Student Loans Program. 705. 706. 707
Disadvantaged students. 706
Federal and provincial governiments. 706
Freeze on boan amounts, 706
lncome-based loan repaymenî. 706
Loan guarantees. 706
Needs assessment method. 706
Provincial opting-out clause. 706
Repayment conditions. 706
Canada's Defence Policy, Special Joint Committee report. 990,
1080. 1091. 1092, 1118, 1123, 1124
Defence budget. 1123
Reserves. 1080
Canadian Association of Lutheran Congregations incorporation
bill S-5, 404
Federal charters. 404
Canadian Broadcasting Corporation, Pamela Wallin. cancellation of
contract for Prine Tjne News Magazine. st. 152-8
Canada's Foreign Policy. Special Joint Committee
Motion to appoint. 269
Chaput-Rolland. Hon. Solange. tributes on retirement. 414
Constitution. Federal/Provincial negotiations, st, 182-83
Criminal Code amendment (dangerous intoxication) bill S-6. 919.
956-59. 988
Daviault case. 956. 957, 958
Intent. 956, 957
Penalty. 958
Prohibited acts. 958
Social consensus, 957
Supreme Court rulings. 956. 957. 958
Voluntary intoxication. 958
Crîminal Code amendmenî (self induced intoxication) bill C-72.
1944-45
Defence oI dr-unkenness. 1944-45
Euthanasia and Assisted Suicide. Special Comrnittee. félicitations to
miemheis on tablîng of icport. sL 1711
Fireains bill C-68, 1907. 1909
Genci aI Security InSLii-rance Comnpany ol Canada. 173
Inîcinal Econoiiiy. Budgets and Administr ation Comiittee irepori
Senate budget 1994-95, 103

Gigantès, Hon. Philippe Deane-Cointd
LeBlanc,.P.C., Hon. Roméo, trîbutes on appointment as
Governor General of Canada. 969
Legal and Constitutional Affairs Committee report
2nd. Electoral Boundaries ReadJustmeni Suspension. 1994
bill C- 18. 490
Lynch-Staunton. Hon. John. election by secret ballot as Leader of
the Opposition in the Senate, 40
Macquariie. Hon. Heath, tributes on retirement. 721
Marshall, Hon. Jack, trîbutes on retirement. 980
National defence, St-Jean Milîîary College, effects of proposed
closure. 201, 212-13
Neiman. Hon. Joan. tribute on retirement. 2041
Olympie Winter Cames, congratulations to Myriam Bedard. st, 131
Pearson International Airport Agreements bill C-22. 821-22. 823
Quebec. strateg-y of separatists. st. 1336-37
Senate
On the nature of debate, st. 784
Statements of press concerning certain senators. st. 235
Social Affairs. Science and Technology. authoriîy ta examine and
report upon the future direction of the Departmnent of'
Veterans Affairs. 176. 195. 351.ý 375
Stanley Cup. participation of New Jersey Devils in the play-offs. st,
481
Transport and Communications Committee. marine safeîy. authority
to examine rote of lightstations. 234. 246
Unemployment Insurance. changes ta legislation respecting jury
service. st, 1248
Veterans affairs
Canadian Vietnam Vêerans' Memorial
lnquiry. 175, 193-94. 195
Site toi memorial. m to provide. 176, 430. 431. 506
Dieppe raid. ta honour veterans by creatîng commemorative
decoration. m in amdt. 376
Fiftieth anniversary of D-Day. st. 626
Role of'commanders and politicians. st. 509
Veterans Review and Appeal Board bill C-67, 1669
Veterans residing in England. 1669
Weber-Malakhov Arctie expedition, trîbutes, st. 2009, 2013
Gingell, Judy, congratulations on appointment as Commîssioner of the
Yukon, st. 1469
Gonthier, Hon. Charles, Puisne Judge of the Supreme Court of
Canada
Royal Assent. 989. 1919
Goods and Services Tax
Application on reading materials. qu, 849
Application on reading materials and eye glasses, position of
gavemnment leader. qu. 856-57
Faîlure of government to abolish tax. timing for resignation of
Deputy Prime Minister. qu. 1532-33
Forecast for elimination or replacement. governiment position. qu.
2441
Removal of tax on reading materials. government position.
qu, 121 3 -14. 2442
Government
Progress of legislation. governmenî policy. 42-43
Government aircraft
See Use of g-overnment airerafi
Governiment funding of Canadian .jewish Congress archives,
tabled. 1475
Gui ernment of Canada, hUmnan righis palicies. inquiiy. 550. 6401 43.
790-92
Chinia. 790. 791.ý 792
Fivc point peace plan. 790

INDEX

Goverament of Canada-Cont 'd
Human rigahts education, 643
International Institute on Human Rights and
Development. 641, 643
Multilaterals. 643
Tiananmen Square, 641, 642, 790. 791
Tibet, 790
Trading partners. 643
Universal Declaration of Human Rights, 641, 643
Speaker: Senator
Ghitter. Ron, 550, 640-43

Democratic

Government Organization (federal agencies) bill C-65. I r. 1924;
2r, 1947-48; ret to com. 1949; rep without amndt. 1977;
3r, 2011-13; r.a.. chap. 29, 1995, 2057
Canada Council. 2011, 2012, 2013
Speakers: Senators
Corbin, Eymard G., 2011-13
Hays. Dan. 1947-48
Tkachuk. David, 1948
Government services, refusai of airlines to negotiate discounts with
Government of Canada, qu, 1709, (r) 1992
Governor

His
Excellency
General,
Ramon John Hnatyshyn, P.C.

the

Rt.

Hon.

Deputies
Cory, Hon. Peter deC., Puisne Judge of the Supreme Court of
Canada
Royal Assent, 478, 664. 837, 20-56-57, 2240
Gonthier, Hon. Charles, Puisne Judge of the Supreme Court of
Canada
Royal Assent, 989
L'Heureux-Dubé. Hon. Claire, Puisne Judge of the Supremne Court
of Canada
Royal Assent, 772-73
McLachlin, Hon. Beverley. Puisne Judge of the Supreme Court of
Canada
Royal Assent, 298
Major. Hon. John, Puisne Judge of the Supreme Court of Canada
Royal Assent, 76, 2410-11, 2546-47
Royal Assent. 1177-78
Speech from the Throne at Opening of First Session, Thirty-fifth
Parliament, 3-5
Rt.
Hon.
the
His
Excellency
General,
Roméo LeBlanc, P.C. (from Feb. 8/95)
Addresses at installation printed as Appendix, 1179
See appendix to Minutes of the Proceedings of the Senate
Feb. 14/95
Deputies
Lamer, Rt. Hon. Antonio, Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of
Canada
Royal Assent, 1446, 2638
McLachlin. Hon. Beverley, Puisne Judge of the Supreme Court of
Canada
Royal Assent, 1334, 1498
Sopinka. Hon. John, Puisne Judge of the Supreme Court of
Canada
Royal Assent. 1793-94

Govemnor

Governor General's Medal of Bravery, felicitations to recipients.
st. 1673
Governor General's Performing Arts Al4ards, congratulations to
recipients of Governor General's Awards. st, 909- 10

Grafstein, Hon. Jerahmidel S.
Address in reply to Speech from the Throne. 56-59
Budget. Statement of Minister of Finance, inquiry. 261-65, 266
Democracy. 262, 263. 264
Federalism. 262
lndividuality, 264
Nationalism. 261. 264
"Open" and "closed" society. 263, 264
Quebec nationalism, 264
Business of the Senate, 64
Canada-United States Interparliamentary Group. thirty-sixth annual
meeting held in Huntsville, Ontario, inquiry. 2052
Canada's Defence Policy. Special Joint Commiùttee report, 1077-80,
1081
Balance of power, 1078
NATO. 1079
Reserve force, 1080
Chemical Weapons Convention Implementation bill C-87. 1873-75
Convention, 1874. 1875
Global chemnical weapons, ban. 1874
"Killing century". 1873
Coastal Fisheries Protection amendment bill C-29, 459, 460:
coonsidered in Comniittee of the Wbole, 471
Electoral Boundaries Readjustment, 1995 bill C-69, point of order,
1901
Frith. Hon. Royce, tributes on resignation from the Senate and
appointment as High Commissioner for Canada to the
United Kingdom. 842-43
LeBlanc, P.C., Hon. Roméo, trihutes on appointment as Governor
General of Canada. 971-72
Legal and Constitional Affairs Committee report
l6tb. Firearms bill C-68, with 14 amdts, 2261
Minister of Justice, 2261
National Library amendment bill C-26, 654
Neiman, Hon. Joan, tributes on retirement. 2042
Quebec, m to recognize as distinct society. 2529
Rabin, the late Yitzhak. tributes to former Prime Minister of lsrael,
2196-98
Schneerson, the late Rabbi Menachem Mendel, tribute. 626
State of culture in Canada, inquiry, 1500
Transport, Pearson International Airport, m to strike Special
Commnittee to inquire into privatization contracts, 1569.
1577, 1578, 1580
Quebec nationalism. inherent contradictions. inquiry 421. 608-il
World Trade Organization Agreement Implementation bill C-57,
1171-72
Young Offenders. Criminal Code arnendment bill C-37, 1869
Graham, Hon. B. Alasdair, Deputy Leader of the Governinent
Address in reply to Speech from the Throne. 115-17
Adjournment, 1182, 1210, 1223. 1236. 1250. 1297. 1339, 1446.
1450, 1493, 1500, 1547, 1597, 1649. 1705, 1739, 1800.
1982, 2037, 2068.,2099, 2132, 2152, 2208.,2264, 2348,
2362, 2382.,2399.,2458, 2461, 2549, 2584, 2638
Agriculture and Agri-Food Administrative Monetary Penalties
bill C-61, 2372
Agriculture and Foresty Committee report
9th. special study of farm safety. 2372
Aird. Q.C., the late John Black, tributes. 1597
Answers to Order Paper Questions tabled. 1305, 1475, 1549. 1601.
1637, 1652.,1695.,1710, 1843, 2092, 2493
Request for answers. 1601, 1685-86
Appointment as Deputy Leader of the Govemnment. 1179
Appropriation No. 4, 1994-95 bill C-79, 1492
Appropriation No. 1, 1995-96 bill C-80, 1493
Appropriation No. 2. 1995-96 bill C-97, 1763
Appropriation No. 3, 1995-96 bill C-I 16, 2497
Auditor General amendment bill C-83. 2493
Banking. Trade and Commerce Committee
Authonity to mneet during sitting of the Senate. 2360
Report

Graham, Hon. B. Alasdair-Cot(it
Banking, Trade and Commerce Committee-Cont 'd
26th. Excise Tax. Income Tax amendmnent bill C-103, with
one amdt; m in amdt. 2449; 2497
Study of state of Canadian financial system. m to extend date of
final report. withdrawn, 2360
Sîudy of state of Canadian financial sysîem. m to extend date of
presentation of final report. adopted. 2380
Borrowing Authonity. 1995-96 bill C-73. 1469. 1487
Bosnia. United Nations, future role for peacekeepers, st, 1036-37
Budget. request for for-mai debate, government position. 1228
Budget. Statement of Minister of Finance, inquiry. 229-32
Empowerment of people, 231
Foreign debt. 229
International competitiveness, 229
Jobs, 231
Recession. 230
Research and development. 230. 231
Smai! business. 230
Underground economy. 229
Unempîoyment. 230
Unemployment insurance, 229
Young people, 231, 232
Budget Implémentation, 1995 bill C-76. 1806
Business Developmenî Bank of Canada bill C-9 1, 1980
Business of the Senate. 1270. 1294. 1368, 1369-70. 1381. 1421.
1428, 1476, 1672, 1723, 1772. 1919. 1951-52. 1953,
1962, 1963, 1969, 2037, 2129. 2177, 2312, 2345, 2432.
2444. 2458. 2498, 2537. 2546, 2549, 2559. 2599, 2605,
2632
Adjournment. 1334, 1529, 1584, 1632. 1676. 1677, 1775-76.
1916, 1975. 2056, 2189-90, 2229, 2230. 2536
Motion stands. 2174, 2175. 2176
Motions respecting Bis C-69 and C-22, votes deferred. 2446
Canada's presence and influence in Europe. st, 1485
Canada Council. closure of Art Bank, governiment position. request
for answer. 1589
Canada-United States Tax Convention amendment bill S-9, 1373.
1574
Canadian Dairy Commission amendment bill C-86. 1923
Canada's Foreign Policy. Special Joint Committee
Appointment. 255
Canadian Wheat Board amendment bill C-92. 2019
CN Commercialization bill C-89. 1922. 1929
Chemical Weapons Convention Implémentation bill C-87. 1924.
1931
Clerk's Accounts. ref to, com. 2152
Clinton, William J.. President of the United States, address to both
houses printed as appendîx. 1248
Code of Conduet Special Joint Commitîce. M to appoint.
adopted. 1970
Constitutional amendments bill C-I 110. 2543, 2548. 2634
Constitutioiîul Amnîdîiicîts bill C- 110, Spc.ial Stenate Committee
Motion to establish. 2547, 2548
Motion to amrend. 2584
Report. 2610-Il
Criminal Code amendment bill C-41, 1923
Criminal Code amendment (self induced intoxication) bill C-72,
2019
Criminal Code, Young Offenders amendment bill C-104. 1995
Cultural Property Export and Import. Income Tax. Tax Court of
Canada ameodmnent bill C-93
Customs. Customs Tariff amendment. 2385
Defence
Lobbyists involved in acquisition. request for particulars. 1993
I)elayed Answers t0 Oral Questions. 1187. 1205. 1228. 1303. 1341.
1360, 1377T 1473. 1503. 1534. 1549, I 588 16010. 1616.
1636. 1684. 1693. 1709. 1717. 1744. 1779. 1928.
2045-46. 1805, 2070. 2091. 2113. 2 153. 2201. 22521
2351. 2366. 2385. 2420. 2557.2609
Deparîmient of Canadian Heritage bill C-53. 1529

Graham, Hon. B. Alasdair-Coi d
Deparîment of Foreign Affairs and International Trade bill C-47.
1378
Department of lndustry bill C-46. 1206
Desmarais. the laie Hon. Jean Noël, tribute. 2061-62
Electoral Boundaries ReadJustment. 1995 bill C-69, m to concur
with message from Commons. 1837; vote deferred on
m 10 adjourn debate. 1844. 1845-46. 1847-48, 1852:
point of order. 1896-97: allotment of' time for debate.
2201
Employment equity bill C-64. 2493
Energy. the Environmenî and Natural Resources Committee.
response to interim report on the safety implications of
AWOS. tabled, 2415
Environmenî Week, m commîtting Senate to maximum recycling.
adopted. 1677-78
Estimates. 1994-95
Supplementary (D), ref to com. 1315
Vote ref to Libiary of Parliament Commitîce. 1315
Vote ref 10OfficiaI Languages Committee. 1315
Estimates. 1995-96, tah!cd. 1250, ref to com. 1250
Supplementary (A). tabied. 2199. ref to com. 2199
Vote ref to OfficiaI Languages Commnitîce. 2200
Votes ref to OfficiaI Languages Committee and Library of
Parliament Committee. 1315
Excise Tax. Excise amendment bill C-90, 2234
Excise Tax, Income Tax amendment bill C- 101,2508. 2510
Farm Improvement and Marketing Cooperatives Loans amendment
bill C-75, 1763
Felicitations to Nova Scotians on recent élection successes. si. 2108
Firearms bill C-68, 1760, 1761; m in amdt to instruct committee to
table final report, 2124-25
First Nations Government bill S-10, 1618, 1620
Royal Recommendation. 1620
Foreign Aftfairs Committee. authority 10 meei during sitting of the
Senate. 1854
Gatineau. donations requested for victims of recent fire. s1. 1499-500
Govemment Organization (federal agencies) bill C-65. 1977. 2011
Governor General. addresses ai installation prînted as appendîx 10
Minutes of thte Proceedings ofthle Senate. 1179
Healtb. impact of îbyroid disease. inquiry. 1758
InternaI Economy. Budgets and Administration Commitîce report
22nd. respecting m to print Volume I of Special Joint Committee
on Reviewing Canada's Foreign Policy, 1604-OS
LeBlanc. P.C., Hon. Romeo. tributes on appointment as Governor
General ot Canada, 966
Legal and Constitutional Aftairs Committee reports
Motion înstructîng com 10 table final rep re C-22 no later than
December 13. 1995. 2399. 2429; debate concluded.
2470
Motion instrucîing comn 10 table final rep re C-69 no later than
December 13, 1995, 2399, 2423; point of ordeî, 2425.
2428: vote deferred. 2470
Notice of motion instructing com to table final rep re C-69, point
of order. 2378. 2379, 2389. 2390. 2391, 2392. 2394
Reports
l4tb. Electoral Boundaries Readjusîment. 1995 bill C-69.
m and message trom Commons, 2020. 2036
l6îh. Firearmns bill C-68, wîîb 14 amdts, 2292, 2293-94, 2295,
2312. 2334. 2337
Prestudy of bis. 2295
Lobbyisîs Registration amendînent bill C-43, 1747
Lobbyisîs Registration bill, ref 10 Standing Senate Commiîtee on
National Finance. 1677
Macdonald. Hon. John M.. tributes on eîghty-nînth birthday. st. 1571
Maintenance of Railway Operaîtons. 1995 bill C-77. 1445
Marshall. Hon. Jack. trihutes on retiremeni. 982
Membheis of Parliamient Retirine Allowances amendment bill C-85.
201 3
Miles. Johnny. Cape Breton miarathoner. trihutes on ninetieih
bîthdlay. sî, 2132

INDEX
Graham, Hon. B. Alasdair-Cont'd
Muir, Hon. Robert, tributes on retirement, 893
National Defence
Report of Special Commission on the Restructuring of the
Reserves, tabled. 2207: m to ref to Social Affairs.
Science and Technology Committee, 2246; adopted,
2278
National Sports of Canada bill C-212, 425-27. 441, 476
Hockey, national winter sport. 425
Lacrosse, national summer sport. 425
Neiman. Hon. Joan. tribute on retirement, 2039
New senator, introduction, 2550
Old Age Security, Canada Pension Plan, Children's Special
Allowances, Unemployment Insurance amendment
bill C-54, 1890, 2019
Ontario Court General Division, m to strike Special Committee to
examine and report upon the conduct and behaviour of
certain officers and justices, 1199
Parks Canada, restored Fortress at Louisbourg, Nova Scotia,
festivities 1995, st, 2008-09
Pearson. Hon. Landon, felicitations on receiving honorary degree,
st, 1673-74
Pictou Landing Indian Band Agreement bill C-60, 1378
Precincts of Parliament, locking of East Block doors, government
position. qu, 1616
Quebec. m for recognition as distinct society, 2473-74
Royal Canadian Mint amendment bill C-82. 1890, 1918, 1919,
1978, 1993
Security and Intelligence, possibility of establishing Senate
Committee, inquiry, 1195
Senate
Absence of Govemment Leader, 1615
Absence of Government Leader from chamber, 2557
Tributes to pages and to staff, 2044
Value of independent senators, govemment position, 2092
Senate fund for Gatineau fire victims, st, 1528
Small Business Loans amendment bill C-99. 2538
Social Affairs, Science and Technology Committee reports
lst, expenses incurred during 3rd Session, 34th Parliament,
tabled, 91
5th, future development of the Department of Veterans Affairs,
tabled. 897-98
13th. National Defence, Special Commission on Restructuring of
the Reserves, adopted. 2543
Special Economic Measures (Haiti) Regulations. 1993, report ref to
Foreign Affairs Committee. 1598
Special Joint Committee Reviewing Canada's Foreign Policy.
government response to recommendations of committee
tabled. 1179
Sylvain, Hon. John, tributes on resignation from Senate, 2551-52
Transport
Measure to terminate railway strike, m to debate ref to Committee
of the Whole. 1373, 1382; considered in Committee of
the Whole, 1401; m to debate ref to Committee of the
Whole, 1422
Pearson Airport Agreements
Authorship of departmental report, request for clarification,
qu. 1534
Verbal statements of Minister of Transport, request for written
confirmation, qu, 1534
Pearson International Airport, cancellation of leases preventing
redevelopment of Terminais 1 and 2, government
position, qu, 1535
Transport and communications
Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission.
proposed orders on directions on direct-to-home
satellite distribution and on pay-per-view television
programming. deposited with Clerk of the Senate. 1546
Transport and Communications Committee
Authority to meet during sitting of the Senate, 1702
Authority to study telecommunications. 1526

Graham, Hon. B. Alasdair-Conrt'd
United Nations. fiftieth anniversary of founding, st. 1920. 2147-48
West Coast Ports Operations, 1995 bill C-74, 1316
Winter Olympics 2002. candidacy of Quebec City, st, 1614
Grey Cup
Congratulations to organizers, st, 2263
Congratulations to the B.C. Lions on winning the Canadian
professional football championship. st, 993
Grimard, Hon. Normand
Address in reply to Speech from the Throne, 87-88, 89
Beaulieu, Hon. Mario, tributes on occasion of resignation, 741
Canada Business Corporations amendment bill C-12, 675
Dissolving a corporation, 675
Elimination of public financial disclosure requirement, 675
Keeping officiai documents, 675
General Security Insurance Company of Canada bill S-3, 78,
123-24, 517
Mouvement des caisses populaires et d'économie Desjardins, 123,
124
Presentation of petition, 42
Office of Prime Minister, status of car transportation. tabled, 310
Ontario Court General Division. m to strike special committee to
examine and report upon the conduct and behaviour of
certain offices and justices. point of order, 1643-44
Telefilm Canada, cuts in funding of Abitibi-Témiscamingue
International Film Festival, st, 1659
Gun control legislation, st, 2313-15
Consequences for aboriginal communities. st, 2346
Presentation of petitions, 2090. 2100, 2110, 2132. 2133, 2153, 2177,
2208, 2231, 2247, 2316-17, 2400, 2416
See also Firearms bill

Gustafson, Hon. Leonard J.
Agriculture
Canadian Wheat Board
Continuation of marketing monopoly, presentation of petitions,
1282, 1547-48
Granting of monopoly powers for the export marketing of ail
grains and oilseeds, presentation of petition, 919
Proposed increase in initial price of grain, government position,
qu, 2119
Timing of examination by experts, government position,
qu. 2011
Crow rate, costs of transporting grain, government position,
qu, 666, (r) 834-35
Delay in grain shipment from prairies, government position,
qu. 321, (r) 455-46
Grain handling capacity of Ports of Vancouver and Prince Rupert.
st, 378
Grain transportation, possible sale of hopper cars. government
position, qu, 2440
Handling of grain on west coast, effect of failure to meet
commitments, government position, qu, 454, (r) 655
Imposition of U.S. import tax on Canadian sugar products,
discussion with President during upcoming visit.
qu. 1211-12
Movement of grain on west coast, government position. qu, 422
Reinstatement of Crow Rate subsidy. presentation of petition.
1282
Strike by west coast longshoremen, delay in introducing
back-to-work legislation. qu. 47. 48
Toronto. status of trade negotiations. government position, qu. 239
Transportation of grain. shortage of hopper cars. government
position. qu. 285
Western grain marketing, possibility of national plebiscite.
government position. qu. 2491-92. (r) 2610
Western grain transportation. backhaul to Thunder Bay.
government position. qu. 1041. (r) 1190

Gustat'son, Hon. Leonard J.-Coiit'dl
Agrqicultur-e and Forestry Cornmittee
Authority to examine the future of agriculture in Canada. 597
Reports
3rd. Canadian Wheat Board amendment bill C-50. 983
1Ith. special study on agricultural trade. 2128
Canadian Wheat Board. 2128
Canola. 2128
Dual marketing. 2128
Budget. effect of carbon tax on cost of agricultural production.
qu. 94
Budget Implementation. 1995 bill C-76. 1765
Freight rates. 1765
Grain transportation. 1765
Prairie landowners. 1765
Budget 1995
Closure of agricultural research stations. government position.
qu. 1286
Statement of Minister of Finance. inquiry. 1267. 1291-93
Agriculture. 1291
Competition with U.S.. 1292
Federal debt. 1267
Gratn prices. 1291
Land prices, 1292
Landowners. 1291
Research and development. 1292
St. Lawrence Seaway. 1292
Canada Grain amendment bill C-51, 1138
Farmers. 1138
Free trade. 1138
Canada-United States Free Trade Agreement. grains. breakdown
in trade relations. government position. qu. 502.
(r) 1088
Canadian Human Rights Act. opposition to arnendment.
presentation offpetition. 1713
Canadian Wheat Board amendment bill C-50. 936
Competition in international market, 936
Research and development. 936
Canadian Wheat Board amendmrent bill C-92, 1947
Crow's Nest Pass. elimination of crow rate. government policy.
qu. 621. 622
Evangelîcal Missionary Church (Canada West District) bill S-12.
2316, 2386A 458
Evang-elical Missionary Church (Canada West District).
presentation of petition. 2264
Farm Improvement and Marketing Cooperatives Loans
amendment bill C-75, 1718-19
Canola. 1718
Diversification. 1718
Firearms bill, presentation of petition. 2045
Grey Cup. congratulations to organizeis. st. 2263
Gun control legislation. presentation of petition. 2317
Justice. firearms legislation. efficacy of research of Mînister.
government position. qu. 2272
Legal and Constitional Affairs Committee report
l6th. Firearms bill C-68, with 14 amdts. 2262. 2326-27
Implementation of regulations. 2262
Transport. railways work stoppage. longer term arrangements for
dispute settlements. government position. qu. 1374
West Coast Ports Operations. 1994 bill C-I10. 66; considered in
Committee of the Whole. 72
Collective bargaining, 66
Price of wheat. 66
Western grain transportation. Cro\% Rate, direct payment to
tarmers. government position. qu. 935. (r) 1188
World Trade Orcanization Agreement Implementation btll C-57.

1074
A.-riculture. 10174

HNICS Winnipeg, cornhînissoning ol ncs h igate. si. 1836~

Haidasz, P.C., Hon. Stanley
Agriculture and Forestry Committee report
4th. lnterim. Future of agriculture tn Canada. 1147
Pr-ocessed foods. 1147
Bîockhouse. Dr. Bertram Neville. felicitations on receiving Nobel
Prize for physics. st. 950
Conacher. the late Lionel. tributes on induction into Hockey Hall of
Fame. st. 917
Constitutional Amendments bill C-I 110, Special Senate Committee
report. 2618-20
Department of Canadtan Heritage bill C-53. 1216-17, 1218. 1219
Alternative televîsion service. 1217
Amalgamation of departments. 1217
Canadian tlag. 1216
Citizensbip. 1218
Copyright. 1217
Diversity, 1218
Fee structures. 1217
Information Highway Council. 1217
Integrwation. 1218
Multiculturalism. 1216. 1218
Social cohesion. 1218
Tourismn. 1217
Fisheries
North Atlantic fishery. presence of Spanish warshtps
accompanying fishing vessel s. governiment position.
qu. 1359
Presence of Canadian naval vessels on Grand Banks. government
position. qu. 1359
Health
Appointmnent of special committee on euthanasia and assisted
suicide. m, 158
Control of' sale of tobacco produets. need for legislation.
government position. qu. 2350
Protection of conscience in medical procedures. presentation of'
petitions. 215-16. 267. 332. 873. 901, 933, 985, 10)85,
1183, 1250, 1356
Humphrey. the laie John Peters. tribute, st. 1354
International trade. sale in Russia of United States pharmaceuticals.
st. 131
Canadian representations. government position. qu. 216-17
Literacy.
OECD
international
survey.
possibility
of'
federal-provincial conference. governiment position.
qu. 2443
National Unity. result of Quehec Referendum. st. 2149
Officiai report. 1164
Peace in Europe. inquiry. 1574
Public Works. Harbourfront. Toronto. closing due to funding cuts.
government position. qu. 1533
Question of Privilege (Sen. Cools). mrpursuant to Rule 44. 868
Remembrance Day. st. 896
Social AtTairs, Science and Technology Committee report
5th. study on the future developmsent of the Depaîtmenî of'
Veterans Affairs. 926-28
Tobacco Product Restrictions bill S-14. 2437. 2536-37. 2584
Addictîve substance. 2537
Cost to Canadian economy. 2537
Lung cancer. 2537
Nicotine. 2537
Second-hand smoke. 2584
Transport. measure to terminate railway strike. considered in
Commnittee of the Whole. 1390
United Nations. International Conference on Population and
Developmrent. inquiry. 933. Il105 (07. Il125-27. I1150152
Aboriion. 1126. 1152
Beijing Wonien's Conlerence. 1150
Canadian Sale Motherbo' d ProJeet. Il125
'l)ALY Index". 1152
l)escî ficatin. Il106
Equjit ol' sexes.. I100
Fanilxii.
110)6

INDEX
Haidasz, P.C., Hon. Stanley-Cour 'd
United Nations-Cont'd
Family planning. Il126
Female circumcision, 1106. 1125
Fertility awareness. 1151
Fertility regulation. 1126
Freedom of religion. 1125
Over-urbanization. 1106
Programme of Action. 1105, 1106. 1125, 1126
"Vaccine against pregnancy". 1152
Halifax MKVII bomber, recovery and renovation of aircraft sunk in
Lake Mjosa. Norway, during World War 11,st, 1581-82,
2130
Hall, the late Hon. Mr. Justice Emmett M., tributes. 2263
Harbourfront Literary Festival of Authors, st, 2165
Hastings, Hon. Earl A.
Address in reply to Speech from the Throne, 54
Borrowing Authority. 1994-95 bill C- 14. considered in Committee
of the Whole. 293
Business of the Senate. 1772
Coastal Fisheries Protection amendment bill C-29, 457; considered
in Committee of the Whole. 462
Correctional service
Incidence of tuberculosis in Ontario penitentiaries. government
position. qu. 1239. (r> 1550
Kingston Prison for Women. brutal conduct of emergency
response team towards inmates. governiment position.
qu. 1253
Referral of tuberculosis problem in penitentiaries to Minister of
Health. governiment position. qu. 1240
Everett, Hon. Douglas D.. resignation from Senate, announicement
and tributes. 21-22
German Canadian Congress. tour of northern German states. st, 352
Immigration. Citizenship. Customs amendment bill C-44. 1243
Internai Economy. Budgets and Administration Committe
Reports
I st. National Finance Committee budget. adopted, 280
2nd. Scrutiny of Regulations Committee budget. adopted, 281
3rd, Scrutiny of Regulations Committee budget, 281,
adopied. 407
4th. Canada's Foreign Policy. Special Joint Committee budget.
449, 450. adopted. 477
5th. Canada's Defence Policy, Special Joint Commijttee budget.
450. adopted. 477
6th. Public Works plan for Parliamentary Precincts. tabled. 450
See Journals of the Senate
7th. Legal and Constitutional Affairs Cominittee budget, 548
8th. Transport and Communications Committee budget, 548-49
9th. Internai Economy. Budgets and Administration Committee
budget. 549
I Oth. Energy. the Environment and Natural Resources
Commidttee budget, 618
il th, Agriculture and Forestry Comm-ittee budget. 618-19
l2th. National Finance Cornmittee budget. 619
]7th. Parliamentary Associations. 1181, 1206-07. 1208,
adopted. 1231. 1232
Appeals. 2212
APEX fares. 1207
Four-and-four proposai. 1207
Joint inter-parliamentary council on parliamentary
associations. I1207
Mandatory reporting. 1207
Progi arn costs. I1207
Spousal participat ion. 1207
Travel costs. 1207

Hastings, Hon. Earl A. Contrd
Interna] Economy. Budgets and Administration Committee
I8th. Staff report entitled "Task Force on the Internet". 1210.
adopted. 1230-31
l9th. Euthanasia and Assisted Suicide Special Committee
budget. 1372; adopted. 1460
2Oth. National Finance Committee supplementary budget.
1372; adopted. 1460
2lst. Re-examination of Senate Estimates 1995-96. 1372.
1460-61, 1462
22nd. Respecting mi to print Volume I of Special Joint
Committee on Reviewing Canada's Foreign Policy.
1487, 1507. 1603. 1605-06, 1608
23rd. Energy. the Environment and Natural Resources
Committee budget. 1583, adopted. 1602
24th. Agriculture and Forestry Committee budget. 1584.
adopted. 1602
25th. Approval of 3/12 of committee budgets. 1584,
adopted. 1603
26th. Parliamentary Associations. 1995-96 budgets, 1584
Lawson. Hon. Edward M.. expression of apology. st, 420
North Atlantic Assembly, sixth report of Canadian NATO
Parliamentary Association tabled, 1649
Point of order (Senators' Statements). 546
Public Service Health Care Plan. disparity in nursing care coverage,
600
Public Works. consultation witb Internai Economy Committee on
cancellation of project, 1215
Reviewing Canada's Foreign Policy. m to print Volume I of Special
Joint Conittee report. 1245
Senate, House of Commons, changes to method of reporting
committee proceedings. availability to senators of
computer link. govemrment position. 1651I
Social Affairs. Science and Technology Comimittee
Authority to examine Veterans Health Care Regulations,
withdrawn, 107
Tribute on resignation as chairman of Internai Economy Commitice.
2606-07
Tributes on twenty-eighth anniversary of appointment to Senate,
st, 159
Agriculture. Farmn Safety Week, st 1297
Agriculture and Agri-Food Administrative Monetary Penalties
bill C-61, 2212-13. 2214
Animal and plant health programs. 2212
Absolute liability, 2213

Hays, Hon. Dan
Agriculture and Agri-Food Administrative Monetary Penalties bill
C-61, 2212-13. 2214
Food safety. 2212
Pesticides. 2212
Tribunal. 2213
Agriculture and Forestry Committee
Authority to continue its special study on farm safety. 166, 232
Authority to continue its special study on farmn safety and extend
date of presentation of final report. 1164
Authority to continue its special study on the future of agriculture
in Canada. 1339
Authority to engage services. 166. 234
Authority to examine the future of agriculture in Canada. 549.
adopted, 594-97
Agriculture and Agri-food. House of Commons Subcommittee.
595
Beef industry. 595
Bilateral concerns. 595
Cereals and oilseeds. 594
GATT. 594
GRIR 594
NAFTA. 594

Hays, Hon. Dan-Cooi'c
Agriculture and Forestry Committee C<>nîtcl
Pork industry. 594
Shared expenses with Commons committee. 596
Authority to meet during sitting of the Senate. 302
Authority to permit coverage of proceedings by electronic media.
689
Authority to postpone date of final report. adopted. 1740-41
Authority to study the present state and future of' agriculture and
agri-food. 2226, 2239
Authority to table final report on farmn safety and farm related
health issues. 1838. adopted. 1975
Reports
lst. expenses incurred during 3rd Session. 34th Parliament,
tabled. 92
2nd. Department of Agriculture amendment bill C-49, 937
4th. lnterim. future of agriculture in Canada. tabled. 1108.
1143-46, 1147
Agri-lood industry. 1144
Budget restrictions. 1145
Committee budget. 1147
Domestic subsidy reduction. 1146
Farm income satety net program. 1144
Food standards. 1145
Integ-ration of market information and market intelligence.
1146
Market globalization. 1145
Processed foods. 1147
Research and development. 11 44. 1145
Rural development. 1145
Sth. future of agriculture in Canada. power to travel. 1109:
adopted. 1175, 1176
See Journals of the Senate
6th, Canada Grain amendiment bill C-5I. 1162
71h. Farm Improvement and Marketing Cooperatives Loans
amendment bill C-75. without amdict. 1739
8th. Canadian I)airy Commission amrendmnent bill C-86.
witbout aindt. 1923
9th. tarm satety. tabled. 1977. 20>92-95
IOth. Canadian Wheat Board amendmrent bill C-92. wîthout
amdt. 1978
Il th. Agrîcultural trade. report on fact-finding missions to
Washington and Winnipeg, 2067. 2125-28
Amierican soils conservation program. 2126
Canadian Wheat Board. 2126. 2127
Canadian Wheat Board Advisory Committee. 2127. 2128
Dual marketing. 2127
I 2th. Agriculture and Agri-food Administrative Monetary
Penalties bill C-61. witbout amdt. 2362
Agriculture. response of Minister to reports of Standing Senate
Committee. înquiry. 2362
Borrowing Authority. 1995-96 bill C-73. 1478-80
Authoriîy to cuver borrowing. 1479
Business subsidies. 1479
Canada Savings Bonds. 1480
Debt operations, 1479
Debi-to-GDP ratio. 1479
Exchange Fund Account. 1479, 1480
Foreign currency debt. 1480
Government spending. 1478
Non-lapsîng amount. 1479
Personal income tax rates. 1479
Smaller public service. 1479
Technical provisions of bill. 1479
Transters to provincesý. 1479
Bu]sinCss ol the Senate. Il150
Canada-lapa n Intei Pai Iiaintary Gi uup
Filîb annual meeting bcld in Vancouvei. report of Canadiani
delcgation t1abled. 10 11
Si \th ainn ual mein g hc Id in Toks o and Osa ka. J apan. i cpoîit oi
Canadian dclegýation iablcd. 2 I110

Hays, Hon. Dan-Coi'ci
Canada-Japan Inter- Parili amentary Group-Coir 'ci
Third annual meeting of Asia Pacifîc Parliamentary Forum tabled.
1182
Canada Oil and Gas Operattons. Canada Petroleum Resources.
National Energy Board amendment bill C-6. 437-38
Consultations. 437
Environment. protection. 437
Fedleral authorities. 437
Frontier oîl and gas. 437
Offshore areas. 437
Canada-United States lnterparliamentary Group. Thirty-fiftb Annual
Meeting held in Santa Fe. New Mexico. report of
Canadian section tabled. 688
Canadian Dairy Commission amendiment bill C-86, 1882
Exporting dairy products to U.S.. 1882
GATT-WTO agreement. 1882
Levy system. 1882
NAFTA. 1882
Canadian Wheat Board amendment bill C-92. 1945-47
Freight costs. 1945
Pooling points. 1946. 1947
Canadian Wheat Board, expansion of powers. presentation of
petitions, 1165
Energy. the Environment and Natural Resources Committee
Authority to meet during sittîngs of the Senate. 1339
Report
llth. Alternative Fuels for Internai Combustion Engcines
bill S-7, 1541
Surplus cars owned by government. 1541
Excise tax amendment bill C-32. 745-47. 750, 751
Air Transportation Tax. 746
Anti-smuggling initiative. 746
Excise tax on exported tobacco products. 746
Fines. 746
Fiat tax. 746
Goods and Services Tax. 747
Healtb-promotion surtax. 746
Indian reserves. 746
lnventory rebate. 746
National action plan on smuggl-ing-, 745
Provincial tax reductions. 746
Reduciion in tobacco taxes. 746
Tax lîabîliîy and otfence provisions. 746
Expansion of powers of Canadian Wheat Board, presentation of
petitions. 1165
Govemment Organization (federal agencies) bill C-65. 1947-48
Gun Control legislation. presentation of petîtions, 2100
Income Tax Act, deductibility of fees for student associations.
presentation of petitions. 2100
United Nations. fiftieth anniversary of founding. si. 1956-57
Veterans affairs. Jewish war veterans ot Calgary. unveiling of
commemorative plaque. st, 300
Hazardous Products Act, remoi ai of exemption for tobacco,
presentation of petitions. 512, 662. 728. 790, 873. 1205
Heaith
Advertisîng of tobacco products. measures announced by minister.
st. 2460
Bovine growth hormone
Evaluation of healtb risk. representations lrom United States,
government position. qu. 2111-12. (if 2385
Link between IGF- I and breast cancer. government position.
qu. 1927. (r) 2081
Canada Hcalîh Act. plan to amiend. governmnent position. (îu. 1598
Centies ot'Excellence foi VWomen's Hcalth
Nature and t"undinLe. gos cinmcni position. qIL. 36. (r) 221
)utcomce of site scîcciion pi ocess. Lovei mnn positioni qu. 2 100X
Cl assif icaion oftobacco a;s hazai dous produci. gose-iii
coitnci on.
43-45

INDEX
Health-Coi'd
Closer control on tobacco products. government position, qu. 1804.
(r) 2079-80
Commemnoration of World AIDS Day. st, l037ý38
Control of sale of tobacco products. need for legislation, govemment
position. qu, 2350
Controlled drugs and substances bill, required amendments.
government position. qu. 2118-19
Effect of reducing cigarette taxes. reclassification of tobacco as
hazardous produet. 90
Establishment of special committee on euthanasia and assisted
suicide. m, 132; adopted, 157-58
HIV infection in women, reported increase in rate, application of
discretionary portion of departmental budget,
government position. qu, 1213, (r) 1343-44
Implementation of experts' report on plain packaging of tobacco
products, consultations by Minister. government
position. qu. 1715
New legislation to curtail tobacco consumrption. government
position. qu, 2233
Possibility of taxation on dental insurance plans. st, 983
Protection of conscience in medical procedures, presentation of
petitions. 215-16, 267, 332, 873, 901, 933, 985, 1085,
1183, 1250, 1356
Reorganization of blood supply system
Government position, qu, 1803, (r) 2079
Timing of final report of Krever Commission, government
position. qu. 2365
Report on tobacco packaging, request for particulars, qu. 1663
Smoking within the precincts of Parliament, 91
Tobacco Demand Reduction Strategy, distribution of study on plain
packaging. government position. qu, 1521, (r) 1555
Tobacco Products Control Act, decision of Supreme Court of
Canada, st. 2066-67
Tobacco smuggling, government action plan. 90
Use of bovine growth hormone somatotropin, delay in investigation
of buman health risks, govemnmeni position, qu, 1840.
(r) 2080

Health Canada, savings in 1995 Budget Plan, tabled. 17 10
Health care, training of workers in underserviced regions. inquiry, 600.
647-49
Family practice specialty, 648
General practitioners, 647
General surgeons, 647
Medical superspecialization. 647
Nurtbcmn medical centre, 649
Paramedical and nurse practitioners. 648

Speaker: Senator
Desmarais, Jean Noël, 600. 647-49

Health, establishment of special commnittee on euthanasia, inquiry.
25-26, 124-30
Assisted suicide. 130
Attempted suicide, 129
Costs of health care. 127
Criminal Code, 126. 127
"Death with dignity", 125
"Living wills". 125. 128
British House of Lords Report on Medical Ethics. 125
British Voluntaiy Euthanasia Society, 125
Dutch Remmelink Commission. 125
Ethical issues, 130
Euthanasia. definition. 127
Active. 127. 130
Involuntary. 127
Non-voluntary. 127
Passive. 127
Voluntary. 127

Health, establishment of special conunittee on euthanasia
Euthanasia-Conr 'd

Cont 'd

Germany. 124. 125
Legal element. 129
Medical intervention. 130
Physician-assisted suicide. 125
Relation between ethics and policy. 126
Right to die, 130
Role of health care givers. 126
United States, 124, 125
Speakers: Senators
Kinsella. Noël A.. 129-30
Lavoie-Roux, Thérèse, 126-28
Neiman, Joan, 25-26. 124-26
Prud'homme. Marcel, 128-29

Health, extension of Veterans Independence Program to senior
citizens, inquiry. 78, 195-98
Accessibility to hospital services, 196
Acute care. 196
Ambulatory health care. 197
Home adaptations. 197
Home care. 197
Transportation services, 197

Speakers: Senators
Corbin, Eymard G.. 195
Kijnsella. Noël A.. 195
Marshall, Jack, 78, 195. 196-98
Molgat, Gildas L., 195. 198
Neiman, Joan, 198

Health, impact of changes to tobacco taxes, inquiry. 161, 266, 317-19.
523-25, 717, 782
Action Plan on Smuggling, 524, 782
Additives in cigarettes, 319
Anti-smoking campaign, 523, 524, 525. 782
Anti-smuggling, 317, 318
Cigarette smoking, 317
Enforcement. 523
Fine for selling tobacco illegally. 317
Govemnment Action Plan on Smuggling, 523
Health promotion surtax. 524
Health costs. 317, 318, 524
House of Commons Standing Committee on Health, inquiry. 524
Impact of tax roll-back on smuggling. 782
Legal age for purchasing cigarettes. 317
Organized crime, 318
Plain packaging for tobacco products. 319. 524
Tobacco Diversification Plan, 523
Tobacco smuggling, 318
Underground economy, 318

Speakers: Senators
Bosa, Peter, 523-24. 525, 717
Di Nino, Consiglio, 161, 266, 317-19, 524, 525
Molgat, Gildas L., 319

Health, impact of thyroid disease i Canada. inquiry, 1689. 1756-58
Graves Disease, 1757, 1758
Public profile. 1756
Thyroid Foundation of Canada, 1756. 1757, 1758
Tbyroid malfunction, 1758
Speakers: Senators
Cohen, Erminie J., 1756-58
Graham, B. Alasdair, 1758

Hébert, Hon. Jacques, Government Whip
Adjoumment. 479
Amnateurism in Iournalism in Canada. inquiry. 646
Business of the Senate. 478
Christmas Greetin"s, 2546
ConDratulations on award of Lewis Perinbami Prize. si. 1888
David. Hon. Paul. tributes on retirement from the Senate. 1161

Hébert, Hon. Jacqueçs-CoIl 'd
Frith. Hon. Royce. tributes on resig-nation trom the Senate and
appointment as High Commissioner for Canada to the
United King-dom. 841
Internai Economy. Budgets and Administration Committee reports
1Oth. Energy. the Environment and Natural Resources Committee
budget. adopted. 640
I 2th. National Finance Committee budget. adopted. 640
LeBianc. PC., Hon. Roméo, tributes on appointment as Governor
Ceneral of Canada, 969
Library of Parliament. Standing Joint Committee
Appointment of Senators, 161
Official Languages. Standing Joint Committee
Appointment of Senators. 161
Parlîamentary Delegation to Poland. report of delegation presented.
856
Quebec nationalism, inherent contradictions. inquiry. 612
Roux. Hon. Jean-Louis, félicitations on receiving honorary deg-ree.
st, 1674
Selection Commnittee reports
1st, Speaker pr-o tein. 22
2nd. mnembership of committees. 22, 24
3rd. membership of InternaI Economy. Budgets and
Administration Committee. 103
4th. membership of' Pearson Airport Agreements Special
Committee, 1676
Sth. membership of Code of Conduct Special Joint Committee.
1981-82. adopted. 1996
Senate. Mr. Duane Wilson, page. on the occasion of his resignation,
best wishes for future, st. 1527
Hervieux-Payette, P.C., Hon. Céline (introduced in the Senate
Mar. 28/95), 1447-48
Customs, Customs Tariff amendment hi!! C-102. 2180-81
Dufy deferral programs. 2180
"~Dufy drawback", 2180
Manufacturing inputs, 2180
TraveI1ers' exemptions. 2180
Valuation rules. 2181
Income Tax amendment bill C-70, 1878-80, 1889
Debt forgiveness. 1879
Deficit reduction. 1878
Foreclosures. 1879
Foreign affiliates, 1879
Funeral and cemetery arrangements. 1879
Mutual funds. 1879
Objections and appeals. 1879
Real estate trusts. 1879
Securities. 1879
Tax fairness, 1878. 1879
SmaIl Business Loans amendment bill C-99, 2511 -12
Administrative fees. 2512
Approving loans, 2511
Discbarg-e of securities, 2512
Extent of responsibility, 2512
Loans for capital spendîng. 2511
Minister's discretionary power, 25 12
Rate of coverage. 2511l
Regýulations. 2512
Hnatyshyn, P.C., Rt. Hon. Ramon John, His Excellency the
C overnor General'of Canada
Royal Assent. 1177-78
Speech from the Throne at Opening of First Session of Thirty-fifth
Paîlianient. 3-5
.See Governor General
Homoika, Karla
Sec Kaîla Heniolka
Hopkins, NI.I>., M'r. Leonard, llicitation s oin thiricth annis ei-stir\ as
Memiber et Pailiamient st, 2229

House of Commons
Decision to cease publication of committee proceedings. impact on
bilingualism. st. 1527
Decision te terminate printing of committee pioceeding-s. st. 1518
See aI.îe Senate, impact of decision of House of Commons
Hueker, George, V.P., National Legisiative Representative,
International Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers
Transport. measure te terminate railway strike, cnnsiclered in
Committee of the Whole, 1409. 1410. 1411. 1412.
1413, 1414. 1415. 1416
Human resources
Discussions with provinces on manpower training, government
position, qu, 1574. (r) 2046
Review of social programs. qu. 856
Human Resources Development
British Columbia. imposition of waiting period for payments under
Canada Assistance Plan, suspension ot transfer
position.
qu. 2417-18.
payments.
government
(r) 2609- 10
Child care, tederal offer of funding
Comments in media, government position. qu. 2503
Discussions with provincial finance ministers. government
position. qu. 2503
Fiscal inequality among provinces. qu. 2502
Lack of consultation with provinces. government position.
qu. 2503
Provincial culs te pregrams. government position. qu. 2501-02
Restrictions on categories et providers. government position.
qu. 2504
Details of budgetary savings under 1995 budgetary plan.
tabled. 1637
Inclusion of representatives of east coast fishermen on social
securîty task force. 46
Installation of telephone communications network, qu. 422. (r) 850
National literacy secretariat. importance of program continuity and
position.
participation.
government
volunteer
qu. 1214-15
Professional training, demain of provinces. government position. 45.
46. (r) 220
Proposed source of funding for cieation of child care spaces.
govemment position. qu. 2119
Recommendation of committee report concerning literacy.
government position, qu. 1211
Reform of unemployment insurance system. guaranteed annuai
income as part of package. government position.
qu. 2349
Relationship te redesign of overaîl social programs. government
poiicy. qu. 2420
Reported illiteracy rate in Canada. governiment position, qu. 1183-85
Request for financial aid for fisheries organizations. 47
Social Policy White Paper. government position, qu. 96. (r) 286-87
Unemployment insurance reterm
Correspondence between federal and New Brunswick
gaovernments. request for tabling of documentation.
qu. 2419
Correspondence between federai and Nova Scotia governments.
request for tabling of documentation, qu. 2420
Division of responsibilîty for job training, governiment position.
qu. 2404
Meeting between representatives et federal and New Brunswick
gos eînments. request foi tabling et documentation.
qu. 24(t3
Pi ecrani toi study of' legislation. gox ernnment position.
qu. 2506 07
Violnceaganstwomen. importance et' literacy. goeci neni
posiion. ctî. 1186

INDEX
Humant rights, establishment of standing committee-Conr 'd
Human rights, st, 1676
Multiculturalism. 565
Arms trading with transgressor nations. government policy. qu. 1376
Political and civil rights, 404
Arrest of activist in Cbina. govemment position. qu. 1983. (r) 2155
Protection of minorities. 565
Campaign promise of annual reports. govemment position. qu. 2506
Review of Senate committee system. 566
Canada's historic leadership role. st. 544-55
Socio-economic rights. 404
Canada-China relations, government policy. st. 545-46
Speakers: Senators
China
Andreychuk. A. Raynell. 93. 404-06
5th anniversary of Tiananmen Square massacre. st. 543-44
Oliver. Donald H.. 564-66
6th anniversary of Tiananmen Square massacre. st. 1689
Commitment to intervention with transgressor countries. govemnment
Humphrey, the late John Peters, tributes. st. 1354, 1448-49
position. qu, 1684, (r) 2113
Compensation to Canadians for past injustices. qu, 1167. (r) 1342-43
Conflicting statements by Foreign Affairs Minister. request for Hussein!, Faisal Abdel Qader ai, role in Middle East peace
negotiations, st, 2098
clarification. qu. 168 1-82
Discussions with Turkey on sale of aircraft, government position,
qu. 1376
Immigration
Establishment of Canadian Race Relations Foundation. govemment
Appointment of impartial members to Immigration and Refugee
position. qu, 1804. (r) 2080
Board. government position. qu. 951-52
Establishment of Senate committee on affirmative action. st. 1336
Capping of family unification quotas. government position, qu. 952
Request for rcsponsc to stateinent, qu, 2208
Deportation of member of alleged terrorist organization, declaration
Further incarceration of Chinese dissident, government position.
of Federal Court of Canada, qu. 2250-51
qu. 2491. 2504-05
Immigration and Refugee Board
Hiring by Canadian International Development Agency of former
Qualifications of new executive director. government position.
Guatemalan General as consultant, government
qu. 1359, (r) 1551
position, qu. 1634, (r) 1685
Review of policy and appointment process. governiment position,
Imposition of embargoes and sanctions against transgressor
qu. 1097-98
countries, government policy. qu, 2366
Imposition of right of landing fee. effect on poor immigrants.
Indonesia, upcoming visit by Prime Minister. discussions of abuses
st. 1296
in East Timor, government position. qu. 2506
Reduction in numbers of immigrants. government position. qu. 952
Manufacture and use of land mines, government policy. qu. 2319
Reduction of business class componient. government position.
Nigeria
qu. 46. 114-15
Execution of Ogoni activists. possible restoration of democracy.
govemment position, qu. 2318-19
Immigration, Citizenship, Customs amendiment bill C-44. Ir. Il182;
Point of order. 546-47
2r, 1219-20. 124l-44; ref to com. 1244. rep without
countries,
Possibility of imposing embargoes on transgressor
amdt, 1760; 3r, 1782-84; ra., chap. 15. 1995. 1794
goveroment position, qu. 1682. (r) 2113
Appeals. 1219, 1220. 1783
Promised amendments to act, governiment position. qu, 1804
Borders. 1241
Ratification of Humant Rights Convention of Organization of
Citizenship, 1219
American States, govermment position, qu. 2069-70
Contraband, 1782
Delayed answer, 2091, (r) 2155
Criminaîs. 1219
Relationship to aid and trade, government policy. qu. 1716-17,
"Danger to the public". 1784
(r) 2114
Day passes. 1782
request for debate. qu. 1693
Relationship to trade,
Deportation. 1243
Affairs
Reports on record of various countries compiled by Foreign
Due process. 1783
Department, goveroment policy, qu, 1377. (r) 1805
Enforcement. 1241. 1242. 1782. 1783
Request for debate on human rights and trade. government position.
Fair access. 1219
qu, 914
15-day period. 1783
Sale of arms to Thailand. govemment position. qu. 1087, (r) 1190
Fraudulent documents. 1782, 1783
Termination of discussions with multicultural organizations on
Illegal immiùgration. 1242
redress for past injustices. tabled. 1695
National security 1241
Gorges Dam Project
Three
Report to Parliament. 1783
position.
Displacement of Chinese citizens. government
Rule of law. 1219
qu, 913-14, (r) 1088-89
Serious crime, 1220
Financial assistance, govemment position, qu. 914
See Joumals of the Senate
Tibet installation by Chinese of Panchen Lama, st, 2499
Temporary release, 1782
Vigilance towards situations developing in other countries.
Speakers: Senators
glovernment position, qu, 2505
Bosa. Peter. 1219-20. 1782. 1784
Visit of federal coimmissioner to China. remnarks reported in media,
Di Nino. Consiglio. 1241-44. 1782-84
governiment position, qu. 2490
Hastings. EarI A.. 1243
Humant rights, establishment of standing committee. inquiry. 93.
404-06, 564-66

Civic-minded human rights culture. 406
Dignity of individual. 565
Environmental issues. 406
"Human rights and cultural relativism". 406
Human rialhts function. 565
International declarations and covenants. 405
International human rights. 404, 405
Line-uistie minorities. 565
Mandate of committee, 565

bIcorne Tax Act
Deductibility of fees for student associations. presentation of
petitions. 2100
Federal Court of Appeal. decision to strike down child support
provisions. govemment position. qu. 453
Income Tax amendment bill C-59. Ir. 12-36; 2n. 1256-57. 12-87-89:

ref to coin. 1289; rep without arndt. 1339; 3n. 1362;
ra.. chap. 3. 1995. 1446
Ace credit. 1257
Atiantic Canada. 1288

Income Tax amendment bill C-59-Cont 'd
Business meals. 1257
"~Butterfly transactions". 1257
Capital gains. 1257, 1288
Charitable donations. 1257, 1288
Entertainment expenses. 1257
Home Buyers' Plan. 1288
Life insurance. 1257
Mine reclamation expenses. 1257
Regional investmnent tax credits. 1257
RRSP-based Home Buyers' Plan. 1257
Small business deduction. 1257
Special investment tax credits. 1288
Tabling of tax hbis. 1288
Tax shelters. 1257
Speakers: Senators
Bryden. John G.. 12-56-57
Oliver, Donald H.. 1287-89
Income Tax amendment bill C-70. 1r, 1801:ý 2r. 1878- 81: ref to com.
1881; rep without amdt. 1889: 3n. 1889: r.a.. chap. 21.
1995. 1919
Deht forgiveness. 1879. 1880
Deficit reduction. 1878
Forclosures. 1879. 1880
Foreign affiliates. 1879
Funeral and cemetery arrangements. 1879
Mutual funds. 1879
Objections and appeals. 1879
Real estate trusts. 1879
Securities. 1879
Tax faimness. 1878. 1879
Speakers: Senators
Hervieux-Payette. Cé~line, 1878-8(1. 1889
Simard. Jean-Maurice. 1880-81
Income Tax amendiment bill C-9. Ir. 302; 2r. 315-16, 326-28:
ref to com. 328, rep without amdt. 332. 336: 3r, 360;
r.a.. chap. 13. 1994. 478
GST credits. 316
Home buyers' plan. 316
Investrnent tax credit. 3 16
Quailerly instalment payments. 316
Small Business Financing Prograru. 316
Speakers: Senators
Angus. W. David. 326-27, 328
Kirby, Michael. 315-16, 336
Molgat. Gildas L., 332. 360
Stewart. John B.. 327-28
Income Tax Amendments Revision bill C-15. Ir. 332: 2r. 382-83:
ref to coru. 383: rep without amdt, 397; 3r, 425;
r.a.. chap. 7, 1994. 478
Gender related terrus. 382
Speakers: Senators
Kirby. Michael. 382. 397
Simard. Jean-Maurice, 382-83
Income Tax Conventions bill S-2. 1r.41. 2r. 98- 10<): ref to com. 100;
rep without amdt. 183: 3r, 203; r.a.. chap. 17. 1994. 664
Capital gains. 99
Caieeories of rules. 98
Dividends. 99
D)ouble taxation relief. 99
lniercst. 99
Inicrn:iiional 'lui idical'' doublc taxation. 98. 100t
Non-discrimi liai ion. 99
Pensions.,. 99
1ioiecol v. tI Ncthei Iands. 98, 99
Rigýh( to ta\. 98

Income Tax Conventions bill S-2-Cont 'd
Royalties~. 99
Tax treaties. 98. 99. 100
Speakers: Senators
Kînsella. Noël A.. 99- 100
Oison. H.A.. 98-99
Income Tax Conventions Implementation, 1995 bill C-105. In.2152:
2r, 2178-79; ref to com. 2180; rep without amdt. 2207;
3r. 2234: r.a.. chap. 37. 1995. 2240)
Bill initiated in Commons. 2179, 2234
Copyright royalties. 2178
D)ouble taxation. 2178
Exemptions to interest. 2178
Withholding tax rate. 2178, 2179
Speakers: Senators
Bosa. Peter. 2178-79
Kinsella. Noël A.. 2179
Sylvain, John, 2179
Income Tax, Income Tax Application Rules, Canada Pension
Canada Business Corporations, Excise
Unemployment Insurance amendment bill
Ir. 511:- 2r, 558-50; ref to eom. 560: rep without
627. 3r. 655; r.a.. chap. 21, 1994. 664
Automobile operating cost benefits. 558
-'Cross-border purchase buttertly"., 559
Depreciable property. 559
GST. 560
Lite tnsurance comparues
Loss of source of income. 559
Mining. 559
RRSP investments. 559
Residence rule. 559
Retîrement income plans. 558
Scientific research and experimental developruent. 558. 559
Securittes. 559
Tax incieases. 559
Tax system. 560
Technical amrendruents. 558
Speakers: Senators
LeBreton. Marjory, 559-60
Theriault. L. Norbert, 558-59

Plan,
Tax,
C-27.
amdt.

Indian affairs
Cigarette smuggaling on native reserves. 47
Clean-up of Canadian National train wreck debris on Birdtail Sioux
Reserve. aovernment position. qu. 1452-53. (r) 1684
Contraband alcohol reserves. 96-97
Legal action against Canadian National Railway. government
position. qu. 1453, (r) 1684
Negotiations on Oka, appointrueni of chief federal negotiator st. 527
Status of negotiations on Oka, role of chief tederal negotiator
qu, 512-13
Indian AtTairs and Northern Development, savings in 1995 budget
plan. îabled. 1652
Industry Canada, details of budetary savings under 1995 budglet plan.
tabled. 1637
Industry, science and technology rescarch. cuis to budget. timing for
iclease ot study. govcrnimcnt policv, qu. 2350-51.
(r) 2609
Industry. trade and commerce. Hihci nia dr-illing mnodules. iahlcd. 310)
Intormation ('ommissioner, annual repois tahlcd. 743. 1773

INDEX
Infrastructure program

Cutback in

government spending. effect on employment,
government position, qu, 356-57, (r)850
Effect on construction industry, government position, qu. 2234
Financing for Kanata Palladium, government position, qu, 335
Financing of professional sports infrastructure, government position,
qu, 335, (r) 849
Formula resolved among levels of government, qu, 399
Government spending, effect on employment, renovations to athletic
facilities in Edmonton and Calgary, qu, 359, (r) 850
Request of municipalities of Canada, st, 394
Saskatchewan Rural Roads Project, announcement by Deputy
Minister, st. 393

Source of funds for job creation, government position, qu, 400-01

Inquiries

Aboriginal Peoples, native self-government, 689, 1018
Agriculture, grain handling capacity of Ports of Vancouver and
Prince Rupert, 377, 409-11, 540-41
Agriculture, response of Minister to reports of Standing Senate
Commnittee, 2362
Amateurism in journalism in Canada, 550, 643-46
Book entitled "Above the Law", 848, 1063-65
Budget, Statement of Minister of Finance, 132, 208-11, 229-32,
244-46, 260-66, 328-31, 369-75, 427-28, 537-40,
560-64, 589-94, 607
Budget 1995, Statement of Minister of Finance, 1237, 1261-70,
1291-93, 1348-50, 1462-64, 1503-07, 1523-25. 1608-11
Canada Council, closure of Art Bank, 1761, 1974-75
Revised, 1782
Canada Council, consultations on the future, 1165, 1195-98, 1232-33
Canada-United States Inter-Parliamentary Group. thirty-sixth annual
meeting held in Huntsville, Ontario, 1802, 2051-52
Celebration of Christmas in Canada, 1057, 1127-29
Child abuse and mortality, inquiry, 2010, 2219-22
Child abuse and neglect, death of Matthew Vaudreuil, 2382
Christmas, way of celebration in Canada, 42, withdrawn, 331
Civil Justice Review, 1890-91, 2052-56
Constitution Act, 1867, powers of Senate, 2501
Constitutional implications of unilateral provincial attempt to declare
sovereignty or separation, 769, 797-99, 1050-51
Environment, sustainable development, 1237, 1622-25
Environment and conservation, 1843, 2103-05
Firearms bill, 2348. 2372-76
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, application of rules to
agricultural marketing structures, 512
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, intellectual property rights
and Third World agricultural development, 1450,
1513-15
Government of Canada, human rights policies, 550, 640-43, 790-92
Health care, training of workers in underserviced regions, 600,
647-49
Health, establishment of special committee on euthanasia, 25-26,
124-30
Health, extension of Veterans Independence Program to senior
citizens, 78, 195-98
Health, impact of changes to tobacco taxes, 161, 266, 317-19,
523-25, 717, 782
Health, impact of thyroid disease in Canada. 1689, 1756-58
Human rights, establishment of standing committee, 93, 404-06,
564-66
Inter-Parliamentary Conference, Ninety-fourth conference held in
Bucharest. Romania, 2231. 2368-69
Inter-Parliamentary
Union. Ninetieth
Inter-Parliamentary
Conference. Canberra. Australia, 9. 61-62
Inter- Parliamentary Union. Inter-Parliamentary Conference on
North-South Dialogue for Global Prosperity, Ottawa.
Canada. 9. 62-63
Inter-Parliamentary Union. Ninety-first Conference. Paris. France.
421, 525-26

Inquiries-Cont'd

Inter-Parliamentary Union. Ninety-second Conference, Copenhagen,
Denmark, 873. 923-26
Inter-Parliamentary Union, Ninety-third Conference, Madrid, Spain,
1615. 1656-58
Inter-Parliamentary Union, Special Session of Inter-Parliamentary
Council on Fiftieth Anniversary of creation of United
Nations, 2068, 2162-63
Joint Parliamentary Delegation, official visit to Brazil, 1650,
2050-51. 2161
Justice, damage to parliamentary process, 2462, 2632-33, 2635-38
Justice, request of minister for investigation by Canadian Judicial
Council into remarks of Quebec judge, 2501
Law of parliamentary privilege, 984-85, 1019-22
Lightstations, report of the Ad Hoc Parliamentary Committee, 1843,
2345
Mexico, present state of affairs, 1339, 1510-13
Ministerial response to Senate Committee reports, 2153. 2222-26
National Film Board, failure to fulfil commitment, 302, 681-82
National Unity, results of Quebec referendum, 2166, 2353-56
North American Free Trade Agreement. transition period for
application of rules, 512
Nova Scotia, research reports on black community, 901, 959-61
OECD international survey on adult literacy, 2443
Official Languages Act, necessity of evaluating the law, 1679,
1755-56
Peace in Europe, 1574
Practice of Family Law in Ontario, 1958
Proposais for Social Reform, 873, 906-08
Public Works, future of Harbourfront Centre, 1529. withdrawn, 1569
Quebec nationalism, inherent contradictions, 421. 608-12
Relationship between Parliament and the courts, 985, 1065-69
Reviewing Canada's Foreign Policy, response of government to
report of Special Joint Committee, 1211, 1258-61,
1464-66
Second World War. participation of Canadian troops in Italian
campaign, 550, 782-83, 877
Security and Intelligence, possibility of establishing Senate
committee, inquiry, 1085, 1194-95, 1221, 1508-10
Senate
Absence of approval for various projects. 994, 1051-53, 1127,
1350
Impact of decision of House of Commons to cease publication of
committee proceedings, 1526, 1592-95, 1644-47, 1656
Social programs in Canada, 2416, 2599-605
South Africa, first democratic elections, 421, 566-70, 640, 793-97
Supreme Court of Canada, decision on privileges of the Court, 2176,
2356-60
State of culture in Canada, 1500
Transport, Ad Hoc Parliamentary Committee on Lightstations,
consultations in British Columbia, 1039, 1153-56
Transport, New Brunswick rail service, 933, 961-62
United Nations, Fourth World Conference on Women, Beijing,
China, 2110, 2236-39, 2386-89
United Nations, International Conference on Population and
Development, 933. 1105-07, 1125-27, 1150-52
Veterans affairs
Canadian Vietnam Veterans Memorial, 110, 173-75
Fiftieth anniversary of D-Day, 354, 407-09. 507-08
Royal Canadian Legion, 856, 877-79, 1050
Status of merchant navy veterans, 320. withdrawn, 682
Violence in society, 1356, 1466-68, 1495-98
Intergovernmental affairs

Consultations with provinces on matters conceming fiscal transfers,
qu. 1598-99
Possibility of agreement on professional development, qu, 985
Internal Economy, Budgets and Administration, policy on
administration of inter-parliamentary activities. equality
between Houses of Parliament. qu. 1134-36

Internai Economy, Budgets and Administration, Standing Senate
Committee
Membership. 103
Reports
1st. National Finance Committee budget. adopted. 280
2nd. Scrutiny of Regulations Committee budget. adopted. 281
3rd. Scrutiny of Regulations Committec budget, adopted. 281
4th. Canada's Foreign Policy. Special Joint Committee budget,
449, adopted. 477
5th. Canada's Defence Policy. Special Joint Committee budget.
450. adopted, 477
6th, Public Works plan for Parliamentary Precinct. tabled. 450
Sec Journals of the Senate
7th, Legal and Constitutional Affairs Committee budget. 548.
adopted, 588
8th. Transport and Communications Coînmittee budget, 548-49.
adopted, 588
9th. Internai Economy. Budgets and Administration Committee
budget. 549, adopted. 589
I Oth. Energy. the Environment and Natural Resources Committee
budget. 618. adopted. 640
Il th. Agriculture and Forestry Committee budget. 618-19.
adopted. 640
I 2th. National Finance Conimittee budget. 619, adopted, 640
I 3th. Senate Estimates 1995-96. 1082-83, 1124. adopted. Il175-77
International activities of parliamentarians. 1177
Inter-parliamentary relations. 1176-77
Speakers: Senators
Corbin, Eymard G.. Il176-77
MacEachen. Allan J.. 11 77
l4th. Privileges. Standing Rules and Orders budget. 1083,
adopted, 1124
lSth. Budget for CSCE Parliamentary Asscmbly. 1083, adopted.
1125
I 6th. Euthanasia and Assisted Suicide supplementary budget.
1083, adopted. 1125
l7th. Parliamentary Associations. 1181, 1206-08, adopted.
1231-32
APEX fares. 1207
Contracting for outside professional services. 1207
Four-and-four proposaI. 1207
Joint inter-parliamentary council on parliamentary associations,
1207
Mandatoiy reporting. 1207
Piogram costs. 1207
Spousal participation. 1207
Travel costs. 1207
I 8th. Staff report entitled "Task Force on the Internet-, 1210,
adopted. 1230-31
l9th. Euthanasia and Assisted Suicide Special Committee budget.
1372; adopted. 1460
2Oth, National Finance Committee supplementary budget. 1372;
adopted, 1460
2lst, Re-examination of Senate Estîmates 1995-96. 1372-73.
1460-62. adopted. 1507-08
22nd. Respecting m to prînt Volume 1 of Special Joint Commîttee
on Reviewing Canada's Foreign Policy, 1487. 1507.
adopted. 1603-08
Speakers: Senators
Corbin. Eymard G., 1604
Di Nino. Consiglio. 1603. l604. 1607
Doody. C. William. 1507
Gauthiei. Jean-Robcrt, 1603-04. 1607
Graharn. B. Alasdair. 1604-05
H:îistinLgs. Fanl A.. 1487T 15U7 1603. l605 06. 1608
Kcnny. Colin. 1604
Lynch-Staunton. John, 1601. 1604. 1605. 1607
MacEachen. Allan J.. 1606 107

InternaI Economy, Budgets and Administration-Cont'cl
Speakers: Senators
Stewart. John B.. 1607
Stollery. Peter. 1604
Theriault. L. Norbert, 1604. 1607
23rd. Energy. the Environment and Natural Resources Committee
budget. 1583, adopted. 1602
24th. Agriculture and Forestry Comnmittee budget. 1584. adopted.
1602
25th. Approval of 3/12 of committee budgets. 1584, adopted.
1603
26th. Parliamentary Associations. 1995-96 budgets, 1584
Sec Journals of the Senate
27th. Aborigeinal Peoples Committee budget. 1774. adopted. 1885
See Journaîs of the Senate
28th. Agriculture and Forestry Commîittee budget. 1774, adopted.
1885
Sec Journals of thc Senate
29th. Banking-. Trade and Commerce Committee budget. 1774.
adopted. 1885
Sec Journals ot the Senate
3Oth. Energy. the Environment and Natural Resources Commîîîcc
budget. 1774, adopted. 1885
Sec Journals of the Senate
31lst, National Finance Commîtîce budget. 1774. adopted, 1885
Sec Journals of the Senate
32nd. Internai Economy. Budgets and Administration Commiîtee
budget. 1774. adopted. 1885
Sec Journals of the Senate
33rd. Leg-al and Constîtutional Affairs Committee budget. 1774.
adopted. 1885
Sec Journals of the Senate
34th. Library of Parliainent Joint Committee budget. 1774.
adopted. 1885
Sec Journals ol the Senate
35th, Scrutiny of Regulations Joint Committee budget. 1774.
adopted. 1885
Sec Journals nf the Senate
36th. Social Affairs. Science and Tcchnology Commîttee budget.
1774. adopted. 1885
Sec Journals of the Senate
37th. Transport and Communications Committee budget. 1774.
adopted, 1885
Sec Journals ot the Senate
38th. OfficiaI Languages Joint Commîttee budget. 1774, adopted.
1885
Sec Journals of the Senate
39th. Veterans Affairs Subcommîtîee budget. 1774. adopted. 1885
Sec Journals of the Senate
4Oth. National Finance Committee supplementary budget. 2500.
adopted. 2543
41 st. Energy. the Environment and Natural Resources Committee
suppîermeritary budget. 2500. adtpted, 2543-44
42nd, Code of Conduci Special Joint Committee budget. 2500,
adopted. 2544
43rd. recommending adoption of Suppîementary Estimate.
1995-96. 2555, adopted. 2628-29
Computer communications network. 2628. 2629
Early Departure Program. 2628. 2629
In-bouse printing. 2628. 2629
Sound system. 2629
Special committees. 2628. 2629
44th, recommending adoption of Senate Estimates. 1996-97.
2)556. adopted. 2630-31
Budget reductions. 2630
In-bouse prînîing. 2630)
Senalor.' research and office expenses. 2630
Stati i ductions. 2630
45ti. Bmill C-Il10 Special Senate Commnitice budL'et. 2556.
ado1 ited. 26-11
Scnatc bud-ci l994-95. 7. 3T. 59-61. 89. adopted. 10(0-03

INDEX
International Assembly of French-Speaking Parliamentarians
Exchange of information and seminar held in Port-au-Prince. Haiti.
st. 2346-47
Executive meeting held in Porto Novo. Benin, report tabled. 1281
Meeting held in Beirut. Lebanon. report of Canadian section tabled.
1801
Meeting of Executive and Committee on Parliamentary Affairs held
in Bamako. Mali. on March 6 and 7. 1995. report of
Canadian Delegation tabled. 1547
Nineteenth General Assembly. report tabled, 42
Report of Canadian delegation and financial report of Twenty-tirst
session held in Ottawa and Quebec City. 2501
Report of Canadian section and financial report of 22nd session of
General American Assembly. 2416
Seminar held in Port-au-Prince, report tabled, 2501
Tenth session of Regional Assembly. report tabled. 131
International relations, human rights. governiment policy. qu. 606.
(r) 834
International terrorism, report of Canadian Security Intelligence
Service. st. 1354-55
International trade
1994 export statistics. st. 1222-23Agreement on participation of
provinces. government position. qu. 1574
Dispute with European Union on newsprint, governiment position.
qu. 1776,(r) 2076
Export statistics. st, 2538
Pearson Airport agreements
Meeting of minister with British counterpart, request for
particulars. qu. 1586. (r) 1779
Meeting of minister with British counterpart at G-7 summit in
Halifax, goverrnment position, qu. 1762
Relations with European Union, impact on local industries.
governiment position. qu, 1600. (r) 2071-72
Reprieve from planned embargo on Canadian furs. possibility of
banning leg-hold traps. govemrment position, qu, 2365
Sale in Russia of United States pharmaceuticals. st. 131
Canadian representations, govemment position. qu. 216-17
Status and acceptance of NAPTA, govemment position. qu. 110-Il1
Sugar. favourable Canadian International Trade Tribunal ruling.
st, 2207
International Womnen's Day, st. 1296
378
International Year of the Family, st.
Inter-Parliamentary Delegation to Australia, report tabled. 877
Inter-Parliamentary Union
Inter-Parliamentary Conference on North-South Dialogue for Global
Prosperity, Ottawa. Canada. rep tabled. 8, inquiry. 9,
62-63
9Oth lnter-Parliamentary Conference. Canberra, Australia. rep
tabled. 8, inquiry. 9, 61-62
91 st Conference. Paris. France. rep tabled. 421, inquiry. 421. 525-26
Canada and France. bilateral relations. 525
Bilaterni trade. 525
Fishing quotas. 525
Human rights. 526
Treaty on the Noî-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. 526
92nd Conference. Copenhagen. Denmark. rep tabled. 872. inquiry.
873. 923-26
Cultural exchan.-es. 923
Fourth World Conference on Women. 925
Gender neutral language. 924
Human ri-hts abuses. 925
Nuclear Non-Pr)olifer-ation Treaty. 924
Twelve Plus Group. 925

Inter-Parliamentary Union-Con''d
92nd Conference-Coni 'd
"20I20" formula. 926
University exchange programs. 924
Uruguay Round. 924
Women in political lite. 925
World Summit on Social Development. 924. 926
Speakers: Senators
Bosa. Peter. 923-25
Spivak. Mira, 925-26
93rd Inter- Pariliamentary Conference. Madrid, Spain, rep tabled,
1615, inquiry. 1615. 1656-58
Canada-Spain fishing. 1657
Human Rights of Parliamentarians, 1658
United Nations Security Council, 1658
Speaker: Senator
Bosa. Peter. 1656-58
94th lnter-Parliamentary Conference. Bucharest. Romania. rep
tabled. 2230. inquiry. 2231. 2368-69
Special Session of lnter-Parliamentary Council on Fiftieth
Anniversary of creation of United Nations. rep tabled,
2068. inquiry. 2068. 2162-63
Security Council, 2162-63
Ivany, Terry W., President and CEO, VIA Rail
Transport. measure to terminate railway strike. considered in
Committee of the Whole. 1401-02. 1403-05, 1406
jalbert, the late René (deceased Jan. 21/96)
Tributes, 2553-54
Jessiman, Hon. Duncan J.
Auditor General amendment bill C-207. 663
Budget
Elderly benefits assessed by household income. government
position. qu. 953
Reduction of federal debt and annual deficit. aoverniment policy.
qu. 952-53
Registered Retirement Savings Plans, gocverniment position on
possible changes. qu. 994-95, (r) 1 12
Canada Remembers, fiftieth anniversary of D-Day. st. 580
Citizenship. conferral of Citation upon Yude Henteleff. Q.C..
st. 1335
Coastal Fisheries Protection amendment bill C-29, considered in
Commnittee of the Whole. 468. 469
Criminal Code amendment (sentencing) bill C-41, 1870-73
Incarceration rate. 1871
Sexual orientation, 1872-73
Criminal Code. Coastal Fisheries Protection amendment bill C-8,
363-65
Fleeing suspect. 363. 364
Force. degree of, 363. 364
Foreign fishing vessels. 365
International law, 365
Peace officers. 363, 364
Economy
Expected increase in debt service costs. government position.
qu. 1109
Possible redemption of Canada Savings Bonds, government
position. qu. 1109
Gun controi legoislation. presentation of petition. 2317
HMCS Winnipeg. commissioning of new frigate. st, 1836
Health. Canada Health Act, plan to amend. government position.
qu. 1598
Justice. parole supervision of high risk offenders. government
position. qu. 985. (r) Il188-99
Legai and Constitutional Affairs Cornmittee
Motion instructing con, to table final rep re C-69. point of order.
2427
Manitoba. ProLnressivc Conservative victory in provincial election.
st. 15-4

Jessiman, Hon. D)uncan J.-Coint'd
National detence
Canadian Airborne Reg-iment. reasons for disbandment. qu. 1356.
(r) 1986-87
St-Jean Milita-y College. effects of proposedi closure on maritime
students. qu. 2l6, (r) 309, 668
National finance, report of Auditor General on national debi.
glovemrment position. qu. 211Il
Pearson Airport Agreemnents Special Committee report
2nd. Address to His Excellency the Governor General requesting
documents. 2190-92. 2193
Pearson International Airport Agreements bill C-22, 732-34. 828
Canadian Bill of Rig-hîs. 732. 733. 734
Charter oU Rights and Freedomns. 732, 733
Nixon Report. 732
Quebec. impending election and referendum, action foi national
uniiy. governiment position. qu. 111
Split Lake Cree Fîrst Nation Flooded Land bill C-36. 943-44
Arbitration. 943, 944
Compensation. 943
Transport. measure to termînate railway strike. considcred in
Committee of the Whole. 1385, 1386
West Coast Ports Operations. 1994 bill C-10. considered in
Comm ittee of the Who le. 70-71

Johnson, Hon. Janis
Communications. Radio Canada International, future prospects for
contînuance. report of' Senate commiîtee on contînued
funding. governiment position. qu. 2489. 2490
Employment equity bill C-64, 2157-59. 2494-95
Aboriginal peoples, 2157. 2158
Canadian Human Rig-hts Commission. 2158
L)îsabled pet-sons. 2157, 2158
l)ownsizing. 2159
*'Merit systein'. 2159
-~Numerical- goals. 2158
Parliament as an employer. 2158
Visible minorities, 2157
Women. 2157. 2158
Environment. federal management of radioactive waste maierial.
rcport of Auditor General of Canada. government
position. qu. I1663. (r) 2072-73
Envîronment. review of Canadian Environmental Protection Act.
report of Commons committee. govern ment position.
qu. 2403-04
Environment. susiainable development. inquiry. 1237. 1622-25
Air qualiiy. 1624
Cod fishery. I1625
Global environmental crisis. 162
Habitat preservation. 1622
Network of wildciiicss lanîds, 1622
Ozone layer. 1623
Sockeye salmon. 1625
Sustainable harvest. 1624
Water experts, 1624, 1625
Water management. 1624
Wildlife conservation. 1622
Environment and conservation. inquiry. 1843, 2103-OS
Harvested trees. 2105
Louisana Pacific oriented strand board plant. 2105
Soif conservation. 2104
Sustainable developmenî. 2103
Toxic chemnicals. 210-4
Wcîland conserv-ation. 2104
7cm lI farmnin-. 2104Fi..heries and 1ccans
Cuis in dcpai imental buidget. deinise of' WiimnipeL, fi eshsaier
scence te anis. ,o\,ei-iiiment position. qu
o1I842.
(1 2080- 81

Johnson, Hon. Janis-C<>,îr'd
Fîsheries and oceans-Cont 'd
Memorandumn ot understanding to transfer freshwater science
îeams to Departmenî of Environmrent. government
position. qu. 1842
Harbourtront Litera-y Festival of Authors. st. 2165
Health
Centres of Excellence for Women's Healh
Nature and fundinge. government position. qu. 136, (r> 221
Outeome of site selection process. government position.
qu. 2100
Income Tax Act, Federal Court of Appeal. decision to stîike down
child support provisions. governmenî position. qu. 453
Legcal and Constitutional Affairs Committee report
l6th, Firearms bill C-68. with 14 amdts. 2322-23
Registration. 2323
Railway Safety amendment bill C-21. 457
Bai-riers to access. 457
Native people. 457
Rights-of-way. 457
Trespassîng. 457
Social affairs'
Implementation of national child care strategy. governiment
position. qu. 1375, (r) 1552-53
Reform of cbild support systems. govemnment position. qu. 1357,
(r) 1551-52
Training Initiatives Program. amount of funds avaîlable from
Human Resources Developmenî. gCoveroment position.
qu. 1633. (r) 1695
Johnson, laite Dr. George, tributes, 1976
,Joint Parliamentary Delegation, officiai visit tu Brazil, înquîry. 1650.
2050-5SI. 2161
Speakers: Senators
MacDonald. Finlay. 2161
Oison. H.A.. 2050-51
JIoint Parîiamentary Delegation tu Brazil, rep tabled. 1649

JIustice
Appoîntmcent of sister of Minîster of Transport to Court ot Queen's
Bencb of New Brunswick. governimenî position.
qu. 1301
Authorîîy to- statement on polîtical non-involvemeni in police
investigations. govemnment position, qu. 2465-66
Crîminal Code. proposed revisions to accommodate cultural
differences. qu. 914-15
Firearms legisiation. efficacy of research of Minîster. governmenî
position. qu. 2272
Firearms registration bill, availabilîty of copies t0 senators.
glovemment position. qu. 1215. st. 1223
Gun control legishation
Avowal by the provinces not to finance registration. government
position. qu. 1662, (r) 1988
Commenîs of Prime Minister on provincial responsibility. request
for clarification. qu. 1662. (r) 1989-90
Consultation with provinces prior to introduction of legîslation.
govemrment position. qu. 1662, (r) 1988-89
Financial self sufficîency of reg-istration program. government
position. qu. 1662, (r) 1989
Impact of gun control legislation on rural socîeîy. governiment
position. qu. I1358-59
Manhunt in British Columbia. reinsiatement of death penalty
si. 2461
Minister's view on eff'icaey of jailing non-vsiolent voung' ollenders.
application oh sainee îît ne ipIe 10Iaoseeso
against
fii carias, hegishation. gsrneiposition. qu. 2271-72
IPaitoIe supers ison oh' hîgh t isk oh Iendet s. gos crnmeni position.
(lu. 985. (t> 1r88-89

INDEX
Justice-Coint'd
Political non-involvement in police investigations, statement of
minister to media. st. 2460-61
Government position. qu. 2465
Re-establishment of Law Reform Commission. legcislative agenda.
qu. 2507-08
Sale of Airbus Aircraft to Air Canada
Alleged conspiracy to defraud federal govemnment
Approach to Swiss government for information, authority for
procedure followed. govemrment position, qu. 2487-88
Approval for letter to Swiss authorities, g-overnment position.
qu. 2247-48
Departmental letter to Swiss authorities
Minister's involvement. qu. 2348-49
Source of leak to media. qu. 2318
Equality of citizens before the law, request for confirmation,
qu. 2250
Knowledge of government ministers, request for particulars.
qu. 2466
Knowledge of Minister, govemnment position, qu. 2267
Libel action by former Prime Minister. source of funding for
governiment counsel. qu. 2466
Motivation for RCMP investigation. government position.
qu. 2248-49
Motivation of minister in instituting inquiries, qu. 2489
Numbers of RCMP investigations publicized. request for
particulars, qu, 2250, (r) 2420-21
RCMP investigative procedures. request for particulars.
qu. 2249-50
Rank of RCMP officers engaged in investigation. qu, 2349-50.
(r) 2558
Request for apology to Government of Switzerland. qu. 2266
Request for tabling of letter to Swiss authorities. qu, 2250
Request for answer, qu. 2317-18
Stage of treaty with Switzerland at time of request, govemrment
position. qu. 2488-89, (r) 2610
Justice, damage 10 parliamentary process, inquiry. 2462. 2632-33,
2635-38
Air Canada bill C- 129, 2632, 2633. 2635
Airbus scandaI. 2632, 2633.2635-38
Allegations against Mulroney, 2632, 2633. 2635-38
Speaker: Senator
Cools. Anne C.. 2632-33. 2635-38
Justice, request of minister for investigation by Canadian Judicial
Council into remarks of Quebec judge, inquiry. 2501
Karla Homnoîka bill S-11. Ir, 2110; point of order. 2139-43; Speaker's
ruling. 2367-68;, order discharged and bill withdrawn.
2368
Bill of attainder. 2139, 2140
Bill of pains and penalties. 2140, 2142
Law of Parliament. 2141
Private buis and public bis, 2139
Retroactive Iaw. 2143
Speakers: Senators
Carstairs, Sharon, 2139
Cools. Anne C.. 2139. 2140-42
Kinsella. Noël A., 2139
Stewart. John B.. 2142-43
Karla Homoika plea bargain agreement, presentation of petition.
2132
Kelleher, P.C., Hon. James F.
Departmnent of Foreign Affairs and International Trade bill C-47.
1244
Naine change. 1244

Kelly, Hon. William M.
Address in reply to Speech from the Throne. 49-52
Book entitled "Above the Law", inquiry. 848. 1063-65
Integrity. 1064
Oath of secrecy. 1064
Police and media. 1065
RCMP, 1064, 1065
Two-tiered justice system. 1064
Budget. Statement of Minister of Finance. inquiry, 328-31
Canada lnvestment Fund. 330
Funding interest groups, 328
GDP, 330
RoIl-back in payroll taxes. 329
Subsidy programs for business. 330
Canada-Europe Parliamentary Association
Council of Europe Committee on Economic Affairs and
Development, Paris and Strasbourg. France. report of
Canadian Delegation tabled, 2265
Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly. Strasbourg. France,
report of Canadian Delegation tabled. 2265
Celebration of Christmas in Canada. inquiry, 10-57, 1127-29
"Christmas iconography", 1128
"Multiculturalisation", 1127
Political correctness, 1128
Respect, 1127
Chemnical Weapons Convention Implementation bill C-87. 1875-76
Christmas, way of celebration in Canada, inquiry, 42; withdrawn,
331
Communications. fairness and honesty in newspaper reporting,
st, 378

Energy. the Environment and Natural Resources Committee
National Protected Areas Strategy. authority to conduct study,
386-88
Explosives amendment bill C-7 1,2155-56
Air Indian Flight 182, 2155, 2156
Detection. 2156
International Convention on the Marking of Plastic Explosives for
the Purpose of Detection, 2155
Plastic explosives, 2156
First Nations Government bill S- 10, 1602
International terrorism, report of Canadian Security Intelligence
Service, st, 1354-55
Legal and Constitutional Affairs Committee reports
l4th, Electoral Boundaries Readjustment. 1995 bill C-69, m and
message from Commons, 2021
I6th. Firearms bill C-68, with 14 aindts. 2294. 2295-97
Aboriginal and treaty rights, 2295, 2296
Antique firearms. 2295
Delayed enforcement. 2295
Governor in Council. 2296
Interprovincial smuggling. 2295
Minimum sentencing, 2296
Museums. 2295
Marine Transportation Security bill C-38, 996-97
Cruise ships, 996
Ecoterrorism, 997
Montego Bay Convention, 996, 997
Security enforcement. 997
Terrorism. 996
National Housing amendment bill C-108. 2515
Powers of parliamentary committees, paper referred to Legal and
Constitutional Affairs Committee. 1130
Precincts of Parliament. proposed renovations to East and Centre
Blocks, governiment position, 307
Security and Intelligence. possibility of establishing Senate
committee. inquiry. 1085, 1194-95. 1561-62
Bristow affair, 1194
CSIS. 1562
Communications Security Establishment. 1562
Confidence. 1194
Credibility. 1194

Kelly, Hon. William M.-Coi,!'d
Security and Intelligence-Coiit'd
External review rnechanism. 1194
Mandate. 1194. 1195
Monitoring. 1194
Parliamentary monitoring, 1194
Restructuring of committees. 1194
Right-wing tenrorism. 1562
Security Intelligence Review Committee. 1194, 1195
Senate. time limits for interventions under the rules. st. 1886-87
Solicitor General. efficacy of security arrangements at residence of'
Prime Minister. st. 2199
Tobacco Products Restrictions bill S- 14, 2582-84
Anti-tobacco advertising. 2583
Smugg.lingc. 2-583
Tobacco taxes. 2583
Ultralight cigarettes. 2583
Transport. Pearson Internattonal Airpori. m 10 strike Special
Committee to inquire into prîvatization contracts. 1580

Kenny, Hon. Colin
Alternative Fuels for Internai Combustion Engines bill S-7. 1114-15.
1542: m for concurrence in Commons amdts. 1802,
1832-33. 1834
Alternative fuel vehicles. 1114. 1115
Comparison to gasoline-powered vehicles. Il115
Costs. 1114
Environmental benefits. 1115
"'FBI" program. 1115
Financial cost benefit. Il115
Fuel neutral. 1114
Government's tleet of vehicles. 1115
Incentives. Il115
Refuelling infrastructure. Il115
Auditor General amendment bill C-83. 2405-06. 2422
Commissioner of Environment and Sustainable L)evelopmnent.
2405
Petitions from public. 2406
Buffalo and Fort Erie Public Bridge Company amendment bill C-81,
1719
Borrowing authority. 1719
Gateways Prqiect. 1719
Peace Bridge. 1719
Transfer of administrative responsibility. 1719
Business of the Senate. adîournment. 1776
Canada Oîl and Gas Operations. Canada Petroleum Resources.
National Energy Board amendment bill C-6. 380
Canada Oul and Gas Lands Administration, dissolution. 380
Pipelines. 380
Canada Petroleum Resources amendment bill C-25. 846-47. 871
Employment. 846-47
Land dlaims, 846
Norman Wells, 846-47
Royalties. 847
Canada's Defence Policy. Special Joint Commîtîce report. 1080.
1090.1091,.1102-04
Air force. 1090, 1103
Defence budget. 1104
L)efence spending. 1103
Reserves. 108(1
Security interesîs. 1103
Security threats. 1102
Subsidizing regional devclopmenî. 11014
Tcrritorial sovereignty. 1103
Canada Wildlifc ainendnmeni bill C-24. 702-03
Audmninistratîion and en fî cernent. 703
Canadian Couîiciativs Wîldlljte IIalih Centrec. 703
Courts. 7013
DeI
)nition
of \\ ildlifc. 70)3
National o dlicai as. 7(03

Kenny, Hon. Colin-Co>wi'd
Canada Wildlife amendment-Ca;,r'!
Natural wîldlîfe areas. 702
Penalties. 703
Protected areas beyond territorial sea. 703
Recovery of Nationally Endangered Wildlife. 702
Wildlife conservation. 702
Canadian Environmental Assessment amendment bill C-56.
1138-39, 1163
Cabinet response t0 panel recommendations. 1139
"One project. one assessment". 1139
Public participation. 1139
Department of Natural Resources bill C-48. 997-98. 1018
Amalgamation. 997
Greenhouse gas emissions. 998
Sustainable development. 998
Energy. the Environment and Natural Resources Commitîee
Authorîîy to engage services. 385-86
Automated Weather Observation Stations. authoriîy to table
interim repor't. adopted. 1961-62
Empowered to permit coverage of meeting by electronîc media.
1250. 1293. 1294
Jobs and the environment. authority to conduct study 390
National Protected Areas Strategy. authority to conduct study.
386.,387. 390
Reports
3rd. National Protected Areas Strategy. 617-18
See Journals of the Senate
6th. Canada Petroleumn Resouices amendment bill C-25, 871
9th. Department of Natural Resources bill C-48. 1018
I lth. Alternative Fuels tor InternaI Combustion Engînes
bill S-7. 1518. 1538-40, 1541-42
Bronson report.] 540
Conversion program. 1539
Government's liet of vehicles. 1539
Industrial benefius. 1540
United States. 1540
I7th. Automated Weather Observation Stations. înterîm report
entlted "~Pull Up! Pull Up!". tabled. 1981. 221 (2
l8th. Explosives amendment bill C- 71, witbout amadt. 2174
Explosives amendment bill C-71. 2133, 2201
Airporis. 2133
Detection. 2133
Plastic explosives. 2133
Terronism. 2133
Vapour detection. 2133
Hasting-s. Hon. Earl A.. tributes on resignation as chairman of
Internai Economny Committee. 26(16(17
InternaI Economy. Budgets and Administration. policy on
administration of inter-parliamentary activities. equalîty
between Houses of Parliament. qu. 1135
InternaI Economy. Budgets and Administration Commitîee reports
l3th. Senate Estîmates 1995-96, 1124
22nd. respecting m to print Volume I of Special Joint Commîîîee
on Reviewing Canada's Foreign Policy. 1604
4Oîh. National Finance Committee supplementary budget. 2500.
adopted. 2543
4l1st. Energy. the Environment and Natural Resources Committee
supplementary budget. 2500. adopted. 2543-44
42nd. Code of Conduet Special Joint Commîîtee budget. 2500.
adopted. 2544
43rd. recommending adoption of Supplementary Estimate.
1995-96. adopted. 2628-29
Computer communications neîwork. 2628. 2629
Early l)cparturc Program. 2628. 2629
n hause, piinting. 2628, Y229
Soond 'svstiil. 26)29
Spccial coilitees, 268 2629
441h. i ecîninicoding adoption ai Senate Estîmiates. 1996-97.
2556. adopte(d. 2630) 31

INDEX
Kenny, Hon. Colin-Coni 'd
Internal Economy-Cont'd
Budget reductions. 2630

In-house printing. 2630
Senators' research and office expenses. 2630
Staff reductions. 2630
45th. Bill C-110 Special Senate Committee budget. 2556.
adopted, 2631
LeBlanc, P.C., Hon. Roméo, tributes on appointment as Governor
General of Canada, 970-71
LeBreton. Hon. Marjory, condolences on recent bereavements, 2607
Migratory Birds Convention, 1994 bill C-23, 699-701
Aboriginal rights, 701
Commercialization, 699
Court authority, 700
Enforcement, 700Fines, 70
Game officers, 700
Hunting and use, 699
International North American Waterfowl Management Plan, 700
Latin American program. 700
Memorandum of Understanding with Mexico. 701
Permit programs, 700
Poaching and smuggling, 700
Recreational activities, 699
Sanctuaries. 699
Traditional hunting, 701
Trafficking, 699
Waterfowl census, 701
Waterfowl harvesting, 701
Wildlife conservation. 700
Royal Canadian Mint amendment bill C-82, 1917-18
"Doubloon". 1917
Savings, 1917
Vending industry, 1918
Senate. editorial in Ottawa Citizen. st, 1795
Solicitor General, efficacy of security arrangements at residence of
Prime Minister. govemment position. qu. 2200
Sylvain, Hon. John, tributes on resignation from Senate, 2552
Keon, Hon. Wilbert J.

Budget Implementation 1995 bill C-76, 1750-51
Aging population, 1750
Constitutional right to life, 1751
Health care funding. 1750, 1751
Medicare. 1751
Universal health care system. 1750. 1751
Budget 1995. Statement of Minister of Finance, inquiry. 1266
Financial strategy, 1266
Canadian Film Development Corporation amendment bill C-31.
660-61
Venture capital, 660
Energy, the Environment and Natural Resources Committee report
11th, Alternative Fuels for Internal Combustion Engines bill S-7.
1540-41
Electrochemical source, 1541
Fuel cells, 1541
Euthanasia and Assisted Suicide Special Committee, Final report
entitled "Of Life and Death", 1970-72
Health, tobacco smuggling, government action plan, st. 90
Neiman, Hon. Joan. tribute on retirement. 2042
Transport. measure to terminate railway strike, considered in
Committee of the Whole. 1411

Kerr,Jean, felicitations on retirement from Senate. 783
Kinsella, Hon. Noël A., Opposition Whip
Aboriginal peoples

Rate of illiteracy among native youth. government position.
qu, 2384. 2385
Right to self-determination. government position. qu, 2384

Kinsella, Hon. Noël A.-Cont'd
Address in reply to Speech from the Throne, 146-49

Appropriation No. 4, 1994-95 bill C-79, 1477. 1493
Museums Act and National Museums Act. 1477
Atlantic Canada Opportunities Agency. location and nature of
management, government policy, qu. 323
Banking. Trade and Commerce Committee report
26th, Excise Tax, Income Tax amendment bill C- 103. 2497
Budget
Proposed closure of Collège Militaire Royal de St-Jean
Request for clarification. qu, 334. (r) 668
Reversal of decision, government position, qu, 185, (r) 309.
668
Proposed closure of Royal Military College at St-Jean. request for
update, qu. 622
Proposed closure of Royal Military College of St-Jean. st. 247
Budget Implementation. 1995 bill C-76. 1767-69
Canada Health and Social Transfer. 1768
Canada Scholarships Program. 1769
National standards, 1768
Research and development, 1768
Budget 1995, Statement of Minister of Finance. inquiry. 1366, 1367.
1368, 1503-05

Canada Social Transfer, 1504, 1505
National standards, 1504, 1505
Post-secondary education, 1504, 1505
Social policy, 1504
Business of the Senate, 1270. 1952. 2129
Adjourment, 173. 764, 2190
Motion stands, 2175, 2176
Canada-China relations
Human rights in China and Tibet. m. 1672
Trade in goods manufactured in labour camps. government policy.
qu, 2112, (r) 2558
Visit to Canada of Chinese Premier, raising of human rights
issues, government position, qu. 2112
Canada Council, consultations on the future of the Council,
inquiry, 1198
Budget for Canada Council, 1198
Canada Student Financial Assistance bill C-28, 707-12
Access to loans, 710. 711
Appeal mechanism, 709
Canada Student Loans Program. 707, 708, 709, 710. 711
Ceiling on cost of university, 709
Cost of attending university, 711
Designation of appropriate authority, 708
Eligibility requirements, 708. 709
Financial need, 709
Loan collection, 7 10
Powers of lending institutions, 710
Privacy, 709
Regulations, 709
Repayment scheme, 710. 711
Student debt. 711
Scholastic standards, 708
Canadian Citizenship Week, st, 301
China. human rights and commercial relations. government position,
qu, 553, 604-05, (r) 835-36
Christmas Greetings. 2546
Coastal Fisheries Protection amendment bill C-29, considered in
Committee of the Whole. 465
Constitutional amendments bill C- 110. 2541-42
Adjudication mechanism, 2541
Canadian Bill of Rights. 2541
National public interest. 2541
Provincial representation, 2542
Supremacy of legislation. 2541
Constitutional amendments bill C-110. Special Senate Committee
report. 2556. 2559-63. 2620-21
Criminal Code. Coastal Fisheries Protection amendment bill C-8
363

Kinsella, Hon. Noël A.-Couî'd
Crinmal Code, Young Offenders (forensic DNA analysis)
amendment bill C-104. 1950-51
Bodily substances. 1951
Department of Canadian Heritage bill C-53, 12-17-18. 1229-30
Annual report, 1229
Citizenship. 1218. 1229. 1230
Multiculturalisiin. 1218. 1230
Parks and natural resources. 1230
Racisîti 1230
Department of' Citizenship and Immigration bill C-35. 763. 766,
767.,768
Electoral Boundaries Readjustment. 1995 bill C-69, vote defenred on
m to adj ourn debate. 1852
Employment equity bill C-64. 2136. 2495
Human Rights Commission. 2136
Race Relations Foundation. 2495
Visible minorittes. 2495
Energy. the Environment and Natural Resour-ces Committee report
11lth, Alternative Fuels for Internai Combustion Engaines bill S-7.
1541
Legisiative process. 1541
Euthanasia and Assisted Suicide Special Committee. authority to
meet during sitting otf the senate. 1446
Excise Tax amendment C-32. 747-48, 749. 750
Fines. 748
Indian reservations. 748
Interprovincial smuggling. 748
Smuggaling. 747
Surtax on profits. 747
Three-year limitation. 747
Tobacco prices. 747
U.S. health tax on cigarettes. 748
Excise 'Vax. Excise amendment bill C-90, 2137-38
Air transportation tax. 2137
Cigarette taxes. 2137
GST. 2138
Tobacco smugglling. 2137
Explosives amendment bill C-71, 213-3
Foreign affairs. return to democracy in Nigeria. efforts of'
department. qu. 1744. (r) 2075-76
Fournier. the laie Hon. Edgar, tributes. 447
Health. extension of Veterans Independence Program to senior
citizens. inquiry. 195
Health. report on tobacco packaging. request foi particulars.
qu. 1663
Health and Welfare. establishment of special commîttee. inquiry.
129-30
Active euthanasia. 130
Assisted suicide. 130
Ethical issues. 130
Legal element. 129
Medical intervention. 130
Right to die. 130
Humnan resources development
Recommendation of committee report concerning literacy.
government position. qu. 1211
Reported illiteracy rate in Canada. goverrament position. qu. 1183.
1184
Human rights
Armns trading with transgressoî nations. government policy.
qu. 1376
AîTcst of activist in China. government position. qu. 1983,
(r 2155
Discussions \s îîh Turkey on sale of aircraft. gos ernirent position.
qu. 1376-77
Esta blishmnent of Canad ia n Race Relations Fou ncat ion.
(,osC
ciI nittt p
I (ts . I18f(g. <ir 2080)
LI
Fiirthei i ncai ceration ofI Chi nese di ssiden t. go crn ment position.
(lu. 2491

Kinsella, Hon. Noël A.-Coni 'd
Human r-ights-Coýiir'd1
Indonesia. upcoming visit by Prime Minister. discussions of
abuses in East Timor. government position. qu. 2506
Possibility of împosing- embargoes on transgressor countries.
government position. qu. 1682. (Ir)2113
Promised amendments to act. governiment position. qu. 1804
Ratification of Humant Rights Convention of Organization of
Amnerican States. government position. qu. 2069
Delayed answer 2091l, (r) 2155
Relationship to aid and trade. governiment policy. qu. 1716-17.
(r) 2114
Reports on record of various countries compiled by Foreign
Affairs Department. government policy. qu. 1377.
(r) 1805
Request for answer. qu. 1717
Humphrey. the late John Peter tribute. 1448-49
Income Tax Conventions bill S-2. 99- 100
Intemnational double taxation. 100
Tax treaties. 100
Income Tax Conventions Implementation. 1995 bill C-105, 2179
Route of buis of this nature. 2179
lndustry. science and technology research, cuts to budget. timing for
release of study. governmenî policy. qu. 2350. 2351, (r)
2609
Karla Homoîka bill S-Il. point of order. 2139
Bill of attaînder, 2139
Private bills and public bis. 2139
Legal and Constitutional Affairs Committee
Motion instructing com to table final rep re C-69, point of order
2423-24
Notice of motion instructing conm to table final tep. point of order.
2376-77. 2390. 2391. 2392
Lîteracy Action Day on Parliament Hill, st. 1209-10
Macdonald, Hon. John M.. tributes on eîghty-nînth birthday. 1571
Maintenance otf Railway Operations. 1995 bill C-77. considered in
Committee of the Whole, 1440. 1441L 1445
National defence
Closure of Royal Military College at St-Jean. st, 617
Disposition of Royal Military College at St-Jean . government
position. qu. 503
St-Jean Mîlitary College. etfects of proposed closure. st. 181, 201
National Defence Policy. proposed Special Joint Commîttee
Appointment. 154
National Finance Committee report
6th. lnterim. Estimates. 1994-95. 738
College militaire royal at St-Jean. 738
Pearson International Airport Agreements bill C-22, 696-97, 698
Canadian Bill of Rights. 696-97
Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms. 698
Denial of access to courts. 696. 698
International Bill of Human Rîghts. 697
Property rights. 697
Public polîcy. 698
Point of order. contravention of Rule 26. 240
Privilege (Ho,î. Seni. CooIs). oral notice, 2205
Quebec. m for recognition as distinct society. 2455. 2529-30
Canadian public interest, 2455
Question of Privileg-e (Hon. Seni. CooI.s). m pursuant to Rule 44,
2-107
Rabin. the late Yitzhak. tribute to former Prime Minister of lsrael.
2198
Remembrance Day. st, 2227-28
Revicwing Canada*s Foreign Policv. îesponse of goveriment to
report of.Special Joint Commiittee. inquiry. 1260. I1261I
Inteirnational Assistance Envelope. 1260)
Senate
House o> Cornirons. changesý to) mcîehod of i cporitng commiiittc
pi oceed i ngs. aaiaiit
to senators of' coitiputci lin k.
eus ernrncnt position. (lu. 1651

INDEX
Kinsella, Hon. Noël A.-Cont'd
Senate-Coint'd
Mr. Duane Wilson. page. on the occasion of bis resignation. best
wishes for future. st. 1527-28
Public statements by Minister of Transport regarding motives of
certain senators, st, 1280-81
Tributes to pages and to staff. 2044-45
South Africa. readmittance into Commonwealth. st. 509- 10
Transport
Abandonment of holdings on Partridgae Island, New Brunswick.
governiment position. qu. 1534, (r) 1617
Pearson International Airport, mito strike Special Committee to
inquire into privatization conmrets, 1565-67
Measure te, terminate railway strike. considered in Comnmittee of
the Whole, 1384. 1394-95. 1403. 1410. 1411, 1420.
1426-27
Transport and Communications Committee. authority to study
telecommunications. 1517
United Nations
Fiftieth anniversary of founding, st, 1920-21
Fourth World Conference on Women. Beijing, China, inquiry.
2238
Canadian delegation. 2238
"Parliamentary observers", 2238
International Day for the Elimination of Racial Discrimination.
st, 235, 1338
Universal Declaration of Human Rights. st, 2435
Veterans affairs. mi to provide site for Canadian Vietnam Veterans'
Memorial. 43 1,
West Coast Ports Operations. 1994 bill C-10, considered in
Committee of the Whole. 71. 72

Kirby, Hon. Michael J.
Banking, Trade and Commerce Committee
Authority to engage services. 1632-33. 1658
Authority to examine regulations proposed to the Export
Development Act. 8. 37
Authority to meet during sittings of the Senate. 728, 838. 2316
Authority to, permit electronic coverage of proceedings. 211
Study of state of Canadian financial system
Authority to extend date of presentation of final report, 2362
Authority to extend dates of final report. 994. 2316
Reports
lst. expenses incurred during 3rd Session. 34th Parliament.
tabled. 183
See Journals of the Senate
2nd, Income Tax Conventions bill S-2, without amdt, 183
3rd, regulations proposed to the Export Development Act.
tabled. 183, adopted, 243-44
See Journals of the Senate
4th. Customs Tariff amendment bill C-5. 280
Sth, Income Tax amendment bill C-9, 336
6th, commiùttee's work plan, tabled. 395-96
7th. Excise Tax amendment bill C-13, without amdt. 396
8th, Income Tax Amendments Revision bill C-15,
without amdt. 397
9th. Department of National Revenue amendment bill C-2, 435
IOth. Income Tax. Income Tax Application Rules. Canada
Pension Plan, Canada Business Corporations. Excise
Tax. Unemployment Insurance amendment bill C-27,
without amdt, 627
l3th, study of state of Canadian financial system. tabled. 950.
955-56. 1003-06. 1008-10
Co-insurance proposai. 1004
ComipCorp. 1005
Consumer protection and consumer responsibility. 1003
Deductible system. 1004
Deposit insurance. 10103. 1004
Life and health insurance industry. 1004. 1005. 1006

Kirby, Hon. Michael J.-Conr'd
Banking. Trade and Commerce Committee-Conî 'd
"Life and Health Insurance Policyholder Protection Fund".
1005
Policyholder protection fund, 1006
Regulatory system, 1003, 1006
Rehabilitation scheme. 1006
Superintendent of Financial Institutions. 1006
lSth, Income Tax amendment bill C-59, without amdt. 1339
l6th, Budget, study on financial system in Canada. 1450.
adopted. 1495
See Joumnals of the Senate
I 8th, Budget. study of state of Canadian financial system. 1774
See Journals of the Senate
2lst, 1992 Financial Institutions Legisiation. confirmation of
tabling of interim report and mi for consideration. 2067
25th. Customs. Customs Tariff amendment bill C- 102, without
amdt. 2370
26th, Excise Tax. Income Tax amendment bill C-103, with one
amdt, 2398. 2446-49; mi in amdt, 2449
Budget 1995. Statement of Minister of Finance. inquiry. 1364-66,
1367-68
Federal-provincial fiscal relations. 1365
GSI. 1368
Government cuis. 1364, 1365
Medicare. 1367
National standards, 1365. 1366, 1367
Subsidy programs. 1365
Tax increases, 1365
Canada Business Corporations amnendment bill C-12. 673-75
Auditing of financial statements. 674
Dissolving a corporation. 674
Electronic filing. 674
Elimination of public financial disclosure requirements. 674
Exemption from filing documents, 674
Parliamentary review. 674
Retention of accounting records and files. 674
Small and medium-sized businesses, 673
Canada-United States Tax Convention. 1984 amendment bill S-9,
1458-60
Arbitration mechanismn, 1459
Charitable organizations. 1459
Collection of taxes, 1459
Double taxation. 1458
Social security payments. 1459
U.S. estate taxes. 1459
Withholding, tax, 1458, 1459
Certified General Accountants' Association bill S-8, 1258
French counterpart for English namne. 1258
Cultural Property Expert and Import, Income Tax. Tax Cout of
Canada amendment bill C-93, 2182. 2183
Appeal mechanism. 2182
Customs Tariff amendment bill C-5. 287-88
Generalized preferential tariff, 287
Department of lndustry bill C-46, 1112-14
Aboriginal business, 1114
Business network. 1 12
Canada Community lnvestment Fund. 1 12
Consumer policy. 1 13
Director of investment. 1113
Federal Business Development Bank, 1112
Federal regional development. 1113
Fees. 1114
Information highway. 1 13
Technology Partnership Program. 1112
Tourism. 1114
Department of National Revenue amendment bill C-2. 383-84. 385
Auditin-. 383
Consolidation of îwo departmients. 383, 384
Customs officiais. mandate and terms ot reference. 383
Elimination of duplication, 383

Kirby, Hon. Michael J.-Coint'd
Department of National Revenue amendment-C'ond
International trade. 384
Security at border crossings. 384
Tax collection. 383
Unions. 385
Income Tax amendment bill C-9, 315-16
GST credits. 316
Home buyers' plan. 316
lnvestment tax credit. 316
Quarterly instaiment payments. 316
Small Business Financing Program, 316
Income Tax amendiment bill C-59, 1362
Income Tax Amendments Revision bill C- 15. 382
Gender related terms, 382
Income Tax Conventions bill S-2, 203
Pearson Airport Agreements Special Committee reports
2nd. Address to His Excellency the Governor General requesting
documents. 2159-60: m in amdt. 2160. 2161
3rd. reserving righit to hold turther hearîngs and adjourning with
no appoînted date. 2591-93. 2594-99
Pearson International Aîrpoil Agreements bill C-22. 677-79. 778-79
Cancellation clause. 677. 678
Management of airport. 678
Nixon Report. 678
Out-of-pocket expenses. 678
Public interest. 677. 678
Public policy problems. 677, 678
Reimbursement of developers. 678
Sylvain, Hon. John. tributes on resignation from Senate. 2552
Koiber, Hon. Leo E.
Rabin. the laie Yitzhak. tribute to former Prime Minister of lsrael.
2194-95
Korean and Second World War, information trom Soviet Archives on
disposition of armed forces personnel mnissing in action.
tabled. 996

La Baie en Joie, congratulations to dancing troupe. st, 1835
La Cité collégiale, officiai inauguration. st. 2099
La Francophonie, sîxth summit held in Cotonou, Benin, st. 2433
Lamner, Rt. Hon. Antonio, Chief Justice of the Supremne Court of

Canada
Royal Assent. 1446. 2638
Lang, Hon. Daniel A.
Canada Remembers. fiftietb anniversary of D-Day. st. 578
Public Service Health Care Plan. disparity in nursing care coverage.
st, 599-600
Tributes on retirement. 613-17
Welcome upon return to chamber. st. 301
Lavoie-Roux, Hon. Thérèse
Budget
Proposed closure of Royal Military College of St-Jean, reversai of
decision. governiment position. qu. 217
Business ot the Senate. 1-370)
Chaput-Rolland. Hon. Solange. tributes on retîrement. 416
Ciiinal Code arnendmnent (dang-erous, intoxication) bill S-6.
1044-46
L)iia alIt CaSe. 1044, 1014i
Intent. 10)44
Rccklcss conduct causlnL iari. 1045
Self înduccd into-\icatioi. 1014-4
104i
Violence aLai nst wý
onlen.ý I(4i

Lavoie-Roux, Hon. Thérèse-Conî 'd
Customns Tariff amendment bill C-5, 226
David. Hon. Paul. tributes on retirement from the Senate. 1160-61
Employinent equîty bill C-64. 2493-94
Per-sons with disabilities. 2494
Visible ininorities. 2494
Eutbanasia and Assisted Suicide. m Io change name of committee in
French. 1518. adopted, 1543
Euthanasia and Assisted Suicide Special Commîttee. Final report
tabled. 1705, 1787-91
Health. appointment of special committee on euthanasia and assisted
suicide. m. 158
Health and Welfare. establishment of special commîttee. înquîry.
126-28
Costs of health care. 127
Crîmînal code. 126. 127
Ethics. 126
Euthanasia. definition. 127
Active. 127
lnvoluntary 127
Non-voluntary. 127
Passive. 127
Voluntary, 127
Living wilI. 128
Human resources development
Reported illiteracy rate in Canada. govemnment position. qu. Il 84.
1185
Social Policy White Paper. government position. qu. 96.
(r) 286-87
Intemnal Economy. Budgets and Administration Committee report
Senate Estimates for the fiscal year 1994-95. 7. 100-0 1
Jalbert. the late Rene. tributes. 2554
National defènce
Eflects of closure of St-Jean Military College. qu. 136. (r 3<08.

668
National Forum on Health. confusion and delay within governiment.
qu, 515-16, <r) 850-5I
National unîty
Quebec referendum, possible reduction in elderly benetits.
govemment position. qu. 2232
Old Age Securîty. Canada Pension Plan. Cbildren's Special
Allowances. Unemployment Insurance amendiment
bill C-54. 1935-37
Access to client information. 1936
Appeal process. 1935
Cancelling benefits, 1935
Debt forgiveness. 1936
Information sharing. 1936
Retroactive benefits. 1936
Seniors' benefits. 1936
Voice mail. 1936
Womien, 1936, 1937
St-Jean-Baptiste Day. felîcîtations to French Canadians. st. 742
Social Affairs. Science and Technology Committee report
2nd. Budget. subcommittee on Veterans Aftaîrs. 547. adopted.
587
See Journals ot the Senate
3rd. Canadian Film Development Corporation amendment
bill C-31 without amdt. 686
4th. Department of' Labour amendiment bill C-30 witbout amdt.
757
United Nations. International Day of the Family. st. 448-49
Law of parliamentarv privilege, inquiry. 984-85. 10119-22
Speaker: SenatorCools. Anne C.. 10 19-22
Lawson, Hon. Ediard NI.
Canada Post Coirporation. delîs in delie
position. qu. 21168

of
(eil ail. cosci nient

INDEX
Lawson, Hon. Edward M.-Cont 'd
Constitutional Amendments bill C-I 110. Special Senate Committee
report. 2577-79
Expression of apology. 420
Legal and Constitutional Affairs Committee report
I 6th, Firearms bill C-68, with 14 amndts. 2323-26
Animal rights protectors. 2324
Competitive shooting. 2325
Farmers and ranchers. 2324
Native women's groups. 2325
Senate. value of independent senators. government position.
qu, 2092
Twenty-fifth anniversary of appointmnent ta tbe Senate. 2096-97
West Coast Ports Operations. 1994 bill C-10, 66-67; considered in
Commîdttee of the Whale. 70
Collective bargaining, 66, 67
Final offer selection. 67
Leader of the Government
Fairbairn, P.C.. Hon. Joyce
Leader of the Opposition
Lynch-Staunton. Hon. John
Learning Disabilities Association, st, 1485-86

P.C.,

Hon. Roméo, Speaker of the Senate
(resigned Nov. 22/94)
Appointment. 1
Congratulations on his appointment as Govemor General of Canada.
983
Tributes on appointmnent as Govemnor General of Canada. 963-72

LeBlanc,

Leblanc, the late Hon. Fernand E. (deceased Jan. 8/96)
Tributes, 2553
LeBreton, Hon. Marjory
Budget 1995. reform of Old Age Security. effect on elderly women
of application of clawback ta household income. 1287
Condolences on recent bereavements. 2607
Economy, creation of jobs for women through infrastructure
program, request for particulars. qu. 1716. (r) 2074-75
Ethics of governiment, st. 1836
Foreign affairs, projected cost of G-7 summnit in Halifax, request for
details, qu, 1761-62
Gun contraI legislation, st, 2313-14
Income Tax, Incarne Tax Application Rules, Canada Pension Plan.
Excise Tax.
Canada Business Corporations.
Unemployment Insurance amendment bill C-27. 559-60
"Cross-border butterfly". 559
GST, 560
RRSP investments, 559
Tax increases, 559
Tax system, 560
Indian affairs. negotiations on Oka, appointment of chief federal
negotiator. st, 527
Justice
Political non-involement in police investigations. statement of
minister ta media. st, 2460-61
Govemnment position. qu. 2465
Sale of Airbus aircraft ta Air Canada. alleged conspiracy ta
defraud federal govemment
Departmental letter ta Swiss autharities. minister's
involvement. qu. 2348. 2349
Request for apology ta Gavemnment of Switzerland. qu. 2266
Lobbyists Registration amendment bill C-43. 1652-55
Access ta goveroment. 16,53
Administrativ e simplicity. 1653
Clarity principle. 1653
Openness principle. 1653

LeBreton, Hon. Marjory-Cont'd
Lobbyists Registration amendment-Coor 'd
Registration system. 1653
Ontario. congratulations ta Conservative government on taking
office. st. 1956
Senate. amendments ta Bill C-22. refusai by Minister ta appear
before Senate Committee. qu. 1300
Transport. Pearson Airport Agreements. meeting of Prime Minister
with Matthews Group. request for details. qu, 1519
Use of government aircraft. tabled. 2 177
Veterans Appeal Board, Order in Council appoiniment. government
position. qu. 554
Victory in Europe, fiffieth anniversary celebration ceremonies.
alleged remarks of Prime Minister. st, 1614
Violence agaainst women. st. 1335-36
Legai and Constitutional AtTairs
Schedule of work of the committee
Position of chairman. qu. 2364-65
Response of chairman. 2370
Legal and Constitutional Afl'airs, Standing Senate Committee
Authority ta engage services, 184-85. 211
Authority ta meet during sittings of the Senate. 353, 1740. 1796.
1958. 2006-07
Membership
See Journals of the Senate
Motion instructing comn ta table final rep re C-22 no later than
December 13. 1995. 2399, 2429-32, debate concluded.
2470-, neg on div. 2484-85
Motion instructing com ta table final rep re C-68. 2109. 2121-24: m
in amdt. adopted. 2124-25; as amended. adopted. 2125
Motion instructing comn ta table final rep re C-69, m. 2166. 2185-89.
2235-36. 2262. 2272-78; vote deferred. 2278; neg on
div. 2290-91
Motion instructing com ta table final rep re C-69 no later than
December 13. 1995. 2399. 2423: point of order.
2423-28; Speaker's ruling. 2428-29; m (can't). 2429.
2444-46, vote deferred, 2470; neg on div. 2483-84
Notice of motion instructing com ta table final rep re C-69. 2370;
point of order. 2370-71, 2376-80. 2381. 2389:
Speaker's ruling. 2390-94
Powers of parliamentary committees, paper referred ta cammittee.
1070, 1129-30, 1153
Reports
I st. expenses incurred during 3rd Session, 34th Parliament.
tabled. 92
See Journals of the Senate
2nd. Electoral Baundaries Readjustment Suspension. 1994
bilI C 18. 420-21. 439-41. 485-98. m in amdt.
neg on div. 498-99. rep adopted on div. 499-500
Commissions. 440,.485, 486, 487
General election, 488
Decennial census, 439
Lortie Commission, 485
Proportional representation. 439
Readjustment process, 485
Redistribution process. 486. 487. 488
Representatian by population. 440
Special House Committee on Electoral Reform. 485
Two-year suspension. 439, 486. 488. 489. 490
See Journals of the Senate
3rd. Criminal Code. Coastal Fisheries Protection amendment
bill C-8, without amndt. 451
4th. interim. General Security Insurance Company of Canada
bill S-3. 482-83. adopted. 517
Sth. General Security Insurance Company of Canada bill S-3. 483
6th. Misccllaneous Statute Law Amendments. tabled. 547
7th. Canadian Association of Lutheran Conurecations
incorporation bill S-5. 548. adopted. 588
See Journals ai thc Scnate

Legai and Constitutional Affairs Comnmittee-Coni'd
Reports-Con; (I
8th, Pearson International Airport Ag-reements bill C-22, with six
amdts, 788-89. 800-10; mi in amdt. 810-13. allotment of
time for debate. adopted on div. 8l3-l4: mi in amdt neg.
814-15: report adopted on div. 815-16
Canadian Bill of Righis. 804
Charter of Rights and Freedoms. 804
Compensation, 802. 805
Constitutionality. 803
Courts. 806
Democratic process.806
Government's mandate. 802
Inquiry. 807, 808
Nixon Report. 807. 8(08
Provincial jurisdiction. 804
Public interest. 802
Rule of law. 801. 805
See Journals of the Senate
9th. Criminal Law Amendment. 1994 hill C-42. with 6 amdts.
10196-97: adopted. 1097
See Journals of the Senate
IOth, Electoral Boundaries Readjustment 1995 bill C-69, with
seven amdts. 1725-27, adlopted. on div. 1730-35
See Journals of the Senate
11th. Young Offenders. Criminal Code amendiment bill C-37.
without amdt but with observations. 1798-800
l2th, Criminal Code amendment <sentencing) bill C-41, without
amdt. 1923
I 3th. Criîninal Code amendment (self-induced intoxication>
bill C-72. without amdt. 1979
l4th, Electoral Boundaries Readjustment 1995 hil! C-69. mn
and
messag-e fromt Commons. 1979-80, 2019-24: m in amdt.
2(024-30. ne(, on div. 2030>-31:-.i in amdt neg on div.
2(33!36: rep adopted. on dix. 2(036-37
15th. Criminal Code. Youne- Offenders amendment (torensic
l)NA analysis) bill C-1014. without amdt but with an
observation, 1980
16th. l-irearms bill C-68. with 14 amdts. 2243-46. 2252-62.
2278-90: point of order. 2291: con't. 2292-98: m in
amdt. deferred. 2298-99; (con't) 2299-2312, 2320-42:
m in amdt. neg on div. 2343-44; m for adoption of rep.
ne- on div. 2344
Aboriginal peoples. 2252. 2254. 2256. 2258. 2260. 2262. 2279.
2281.2284. 2285. 2287, 2295. 2296. 2304. 2305. 2328.
2329. 2330. 2331.,2334. 2336. 2337.,234<)
Animal rights protectors, 2324
Antique weapons. 2253. 2254. 2295
Charter of Rights and Freedoms. 2289. 2321
Competitive shooting. 2325
Confiscation without compensation. 2259. 2260
Cost. 2290, 2335
Customs, 2290
Decriminalization. 2285. 2286. 2288
Delayed implementation. 2259. 226LI 2282, 2289. 2295
Domestic violence. 2300. 2302
Draft regulations. 2253
Enforcement. 2321
Farmers and ranchers. 2324
Governor in Council. 2253. 2288. 2296. 2302
Guns as tools. 2297. 2298
Interprovincial smuggling, 2289. 2295
Mandatory minimum sentences. 2255, 2296
Mînister o] Justice regulatory powers. 2254. 2255. 2261
Museums. 2253. 2254. 226L. 2262. 2282. 2295. 2327. 2328.
2335
National iinit, 2286
Native wxomien's groups. 2325
~OitinL in" foi ula. 2252. 2255. 2260. 2289, 229<)
(lxxneiship. 2321
Prestudy o] bis. 2294, 2295

Legal and Constitutional Afl'airs Committee-Coiit'd
Reports Conî; d
Prison terms. 2253
Provincial authority t0 legîslate crimînal law. 2289
Regional representation. 2286
Registration. 2253. 2254. 2262. 2280. 2281, 2283. 2284. 2288.
2297. 2301. 2320. 2321. 2323. 2332. 2333, 2334. 2337
Regulation. 2288. 2289
Sale storage regulations. 23(X)
Senate's role. 2286
Smuggling. 2281
Suicide. 2300
Treaties. 2328, 2329
Speakers: Senators
Andreychuk. A. Raynell, 2328-31
Atkins. Norman K.. 2334-35. 2336
Bacon. Lise. 2320-22
Beaudoîn. Gérald-A.. 2252-53
Berntson. Eric Arthur 2292. 2299. 2334
Carstairs. Sharon. 2253-56. 2259. 2260, 2299. 2300
Corbin, Eymard G.. 2282
DeWare. Mabel M.. 2337-38
Di Nîno. Consîglio. 2292-93
Doyle. Richard J.. 2294
Fairbaim. Joyce. 2341-42
Gauthier Jean-Robert, 2332-33
Ghitter. Ron. 2256-59. 2260-61. 2262
Grafstein. Jerahmiel S.. 2261
Graham, B. Alasdair 2292, 2293-94, 2295. 23 12, 2334.
2337
Gustafson. Leonard J.. 2262. 2326-27
Johnson. Janîs. 2322-23
Kelly. William M.. 2294. 2295-97
Lawson. Edward M.. 2323-26
Losier-Cool. Rose-Marie. 2-327-28
Luciei. Paul, 226<). 2283. 2284
Lynch-Staunton. John. 2-339. 2340-41
Milne. Lorna. 2287-90
Oliver, Donald H.. 2281-82
Pearson. Landon. 2303-OS
Perrault. Raymond J.. 2340
Pîtfield. R.Michael. 2338
Prud'homme. Marcel, 2291, 2299
Roux. Jean-Louis. 2279-80
St. Germain. Gerry. 2256. 2262, 2283. 2287. 2300-01,
2309-12
Sparrow. Herbert O.. 2262. 2290. 22-97-99. 2300. 23(09
Spivak. Mira, 2261. 2262. 2284-87
Stanbury Richard J., 2308-09
Sîratton. Terry. 2260. 2287. 2301-03
Tkacbuk. David. 2305-08
Watt. Charlie. 2336-37
l7th. Evangelical Missionary Church <Canada West District)
hi]] S-12. wîth 1 amdt. 2436
l8th. Corrections and Conditional Release. Criminal Code.
Criminal
Records. Prisons and Reformatories
amendment hi!] C-45. without amdt but with
one observation, 2436-37
Leneker, Terry, Chief Executive Officer, Canadian National
Transport. measure t0 terminate railway strike. considered in
Committee o] the Whole. 1385. 1386, 1388, 1389, 13901
Lewis, Hon. P. 1)erek
Comimonwealth
Parliarnentary
Association.
loi ty-tîrst
Commionwe alth ParI iamnentary Conference. Colomibo.
Sri Lanka. rcp tabled. 2362
CinminaI Lm\s Amendment. 1994 hi!] C-421. 883-85
Afficlax ii. 883
Arrest and întern icîcase schemne. 884
Auest vairiant hv coironer, 884

INDEX
Lightstations, report of the Ad Hoc Parliamentary Committee,
Lewis, Hon. P. Derek (Sont'd
inquiry. 1843. 2345
Criminal Law Amendment-Conr 'd
Bail deait by telephone. 884
Literacy
Closed-circuit television. 883
Authenticity of kits released. government position. qu, 1891 -92
Crime. increasing and unreported. 883
Future measures to be instituted. government position, qu, 2439-40
Criminal courts. 883
Making Scenes Between the Lines pamphlet. targetted aduit market,
Eight-day remand rule. 883
government position. qu. 1894-95
Pretrial detention, 884
OECD international survey. link between adult literacy and
Pretrial proceedings. publicity. 884
employment, government position, qu. 2438
Privacy of witnesses. 884
OECD international survey, possibility of federal provincial
Protecting victims of violence, 884
conference. aovernment position. qu. 2443
Publishing judicial proceedings, 884
Request for kits for senators. qu. 1895
Uniforim Law Conference of Canada. 883
Visibility of literacy secretariat, government position. qu. 2439
Crown Liability and Proceedings axnendment bill C-4, 381-82
North American Agreement on Environniental Cooperation, 381
Literacy Action Day on Parliamnent Hill1, st. 1209- 10
North American Agreement on Labour Cooperation, 381
Tri-national panels. 381, 382
bill C-43. I r. 1598z 2r. 1637-39.
Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Suspension. 1994 bil! C- 18. Lobbyists Registration amendment
1652-55; ref to com. 1655; order rescinded and
310-12
ref to National Finance. 1677-, rep without amdt. 1727;
Allocation of seats amnong provinces. 311
3r, 1747; r.a.. chap. 12. 1995. 1793
Constitutionality of bill. 312
Access to goveriment. 1653
Constituency boundaies. 311
Administrative simplicity. 1653
Decennial census. 311
Clarity principle. 1653
Electoral boundaries commissions. 311, 312
Code of Conduct. 1639
Criteria to set boundaries. 312
Conflict of Interest Code. 1637
Formula for determining number of seats. 311
Ethics Counsellor. 1637, 1639
of House of Commons. 312
Increase in members
Holtmann report, 1637, 1638
Readjustment of boundaries. 311. 312
Levels of Iobbyists, 1638
Redistribution process, 311
Tier 1 and lier 11,1638
Royal Commission on Electoral Reform (Lortie). 311
Not-for-profit organrizations. 1638
Timefraine for readjustment. 312
Openness principle. 1653
Legal and Constitutional Affairs Commiùttee
Political process. 1637
Authority to meet during sitting of the Senate, 2006
Procurement process. 1637
Report
Registration, 1639. 1653
l4th, Electoral Boundaries Readjustment, 1995 bill C-69,
Trust. 1637
m iniamdt. 2031-32
mi
and message from Commons.
Types of Iobbyists. 1638
Rowe. the late Hon. Frederick William. tribute. 684-85
Consultant. 1638
Scrutiny of Regulations Commiàttee reports
Corporate-in-house. 1638
I st, expenses incurred during 3rd Session, 34th Parliament. 214,
Organization in-house. 1638, 1639
adopted. 243
Speakers: Senators
See Joumals of the Senate
LeBreton, Hon. Marjory. 1652-55
2nd, Illegal dispensations. tabled. 1038. 1149. 1150
Pearson, Landon. 1637-39
Government response. 1149
joint committees, 1150
Rules of
Losier-Cool, Hon. Rose-Marie (introduced in the Senate Mar. 28/95),
3rd. Disallowance. tabled, 1631-32, 1695-96
1447-48
See Journals of the Senate
Criminal Code. Young Offenders (forensic DNA analysis)
Transport, Pearson International Airport, m to strîke Special
amendment bill C-104. 1949-50
Committee to inquire into privatization contracts. 1579
Employment equity bill C-64. 2134-35, 2496
West Coast Ports Operations, 1995 bill C-74, considered in
Aboriginal people, 2134
Comrmttee of the Whole. 1324, 1333
Canadian Human Rights Commission, 2135
Consultation. 2135
Disabled. 2134
L'Heureux-Dubé, Hon. Claire, Puisne Judge of the Supreme Court
Discrimination. 2134
of Canada
Enforcement, 2135
Royal Assent. 772-73
Human Rights Tribunal panel. 2135
Quotas, 2135
Library of Parliamnent
Review of legislation, 2135
Rep of Librarian for 1992-93 tabled. 420
Visible minorities. 2134
of Librarian for 1993-94 tabled. 1689
Rep
Womnen. 2134
Fergusson, the Hon. Muriel McQueen. tribute to first female
Speaker of the Senate. st, 2555
Library of Parliament, Standing Joint Committee
Gun control legislation, presentation of petitions, 2110
Appointment of Senators, 161
Legal and Constitutional Affairs Committee report
Authority to meet during adjourniments of the Senate. 202;
I6th. Firearnis bill C-68, with 14 amndts. 2327-28
m withdrawn. 317
Museums. 2327. 2328
Estimates. 1994-95. vote 10 ref. 184
Neiman. Hon. Joan. tribute on retirement. 2041
Estimates. 1995-96
Social Affairs. Science and Technology Committee report
Supplementary (D). vote 10d ref. 1315
11 th, Employmnent equity bil! C-64, 2385
Vote 10Oref. 1315
Violence against women. si. 2264
Membership. message froin Commons. 48-49
World Teachers' Day. st. 2097-98
Report
Youth. education and employmient. st. 1711. 1712
1st. ternis of reference. 249; adopted. 369

Low, Mr. D.

Martin, Senior General Counsel, Department
of Citizenship and Immigration
Department of CitlLenship and Immigration bill C-35, considered in
Comm ittee of the Whole. 765

Lucier, Hon. Paul
Business of the Senate. adjournment. 764
Clerk of the Senate
Appointment of Gordon Barnhart. Esq.. as honorary oflîcer of the
Senate. felicîtations. 180
Appointment of Paul Bélisie. Esq.. as Clerk of the Senate.
felicitations. 180
Constitutional amendments. veto proposaIs. effect on future status of
Yukon. qu. 2418
Firearms bill C-68, 1819-20
Cost of registration. 1819
Lost or stolen firearms. 1819
Ging-eli. Judy. congratulations on appointment as Commissioner of
the Yukon, st. 1469
Gun control legislation. presentation of petitions. 2231I. 2416
Legal and Constitutional Affairs Committee report
l6th. Firearms bill C-68. with 14 amdts. 2260. 2283. 2284
flpting out formula, 2260
Registration of long guns. 2283
Ministerial response to Senate committee reports. inquiry. 2226
Royal Canadian Mounted Police. centennial of association with the
Yukon. st. 2242-43
Transport. measure to terminate railway strike. considered in
Committee of the Whole. 1393. 1394
Yukon Firsi Nations Land Claims Agreement bill C-33. 751-56. 787
Champagne and Aishihîk First Nations. 754
Employment. 751
Fish and wildlife harvesting rîghts. 751, 754
Fishing branch ecolog-ical reserve. 754
Heritage protection. 754
Hunting and fishing rights. 754
Land and financial compensation. 751
McArthur Wîldlîfe Sanctuary. 754
Nacho Nyak Dun Firsi Nation. 754
Nisutlin River Delta National Wildlife Area. 755
Old Crow Flats Special Management Area, 754
Outfitting concession, 754, 755
Right to buy interest. 751
Teslin Tlingît Council Agreement. 755
Vuntut Gwitchin First Nation, 753. 754
Vuntut National Park. 754
Yukon Surface Rights Board bill C-55, 1042-43. 1093. 1094-96
Disputes. 1043. 1095
Land access. 1042
Land dlaims. 1095
Self-government, 1095
Surface Rig-hts Board, 1042. 1043
Nomination ot members. 1043, 1095
Powers. 1095
Umbrella final agreement, 1042, 1094. 1095

Lynch-Staunton, Hon. John, Leader of the Opposition
Address in reply [o Speech from the Throne. 26-30
Agriculture and Forestry Committee report
4th, lnterim. Future of agriculture in Canada. 1147
Commîttee budget. 1147
5th. Future of' agýriculture in Canada. power to travel. adopted.
1175
Alter native Fuels foi- Internal Combustion Ene-ines bill S-7. ni foi
concurrence iii Comminons aidis. I1833
Appropriation No. -4, 1994-95 bill C-79. 1-455
Atomeii Encrgy ot Canada Lii ited. appoi ntmnent and comipeten. cf
cha irmnan. gos crnmcint positio(n. (IL. 250-1)
Rankine. Ti ade and Commniei ce Comtiiitc

Lynch-Staunton, Hon. .John Co'd
Banking-. Trade and Comnmerce Comimittee-Coiiî'd
Reports
6th. committee's work plan. tabled. 395
l3th. study of suite (if Canadian fînancial sysîem. tabled. 950
Beaulicu. Hon. Mario. iribuies on occasion of resignation. 740)
Bonrowing Auîhoriîy. 1994-95 bill C- 14. 290. 292-93. 294-95
Bosnia
Canada's commîtmenî to NATO air- strikes. govemrment position.
qu. 93
Use of air strikes. Canada's role. governiment position. qu. 94,
114-15
Budget
Extension of wage freeze loi public servants. g-overnment
position. qu. 134. 135
Granîs to municijialities in lieu of taxes. government policy.
qu. 216. (il 3 10
International Space Station Program. status of' Canada's
commitment. governmenî position. qu. 161, 162. 163
Request l'or clarification. qu. 236-37. (r) 1985-86
Proposed closure of Royal Mîlîtary College of St-Jean, reversai of
decision. governiment position. 219
Statement of Minîster of Finance. inquiry. 246
Budget Implementation. 1994 amendment bill C- 7. 531. 532.533
Budget 1995, Statement of Mînister of Finance. înquiry. 1366-67.
1368
GST. 1368
Business of the Senate. 63. 64. 78. 207. 478-79. 556. 800. 877.
1081. 1369. 1370. 1951. 1952. 1953
Adjournment. 249. 511. 680
Motion stands. 2175
Points of order. 237 1, 2372
Canada-China relations. diplomatie representations to China on sîxth
anniversary (ilTiananmen Square massacre. requesi for
information. 1691
Canada Council. consultations on the tuture. inquiry. 1233
Self censorship. 1233
Canada Petroleum Resources amendment bill C-25, 846
Canada Reiiember,. fifiieth anniversaîy of D-Day. st. 577
Canada's Foreign Polîcy. Special Joint Commîîtee
Appointment. 268-69
Chambers. the laie Hon. Egan. tributcs. 434
Chaput-Rolland. Hon. Solange. tributes on retirement. 412-13
China. human rights and commercial relations
Government policy. qu. 601. 602
Govemment position. qu. 553
Clerk of the Senate
Appointment of Gordon Bamnhart. Esq.. as honorary officer of the
Senate. felicitations. 179
Appointment of Paul Belisle. Esq.. as Clerk of the Senate.
felicitations. 179
Coastal Fîsheries Protection Act. amendments to regulations tabled.
547
Coastal Fîshertes Protection amendment bill C-29. 452: considered
in Committee of the Whole. 462-63. 465. 466. 467.
472. 475
Confliet of interesîs. lobbyîng. influence peddling and selling access.
qu. 354-55. (r) 456
Constitutional Amendmrents bill C- 110. Special Senate Commîttee
report. 2580. 2581, 2582
Criminal Code amendmnent (dangerous intoxication) bill S-6. 987.
988
Customs Taiiff anendnient bill C-5, 226
D)avid. Honi. Paul. n ibutes on retirement fronti the Senate. 1158-59
I ilaved Ianswcrx to oral questions, 915
I)csiiaiai s. thc laie Hon. Jean NocI. tri bute. 2060
Econonms. ieduciion in fcdcî ai defic. ýt. 12 10
Ehec tion h\ secret ballot as Leadci of the ()îsii
ii the Seniatc.
401

INDEX
Lynch-Staunton, Hon. John-Cont'd
Lynch-Staunton, Hon. John-Con 'd
International trade
Elections Canada
1994 export statistics. st. 1222
Electoral boundaries commissions, introduction of new
Status and acceptance of NAFTA. government position.
legislation, request for pre-study, qu, 1039
qu. 110-11
Readjustment of electoral boundaries based on 1991 census.
Justice
government position, qu, 1039
Sale of Airbus Aircraft to Air Canada
Electoral Boundaries Readjustment, 1995 bill C-69, vote deferred on
Alleged conspiracy to defraud federal government
m to adjourn debate, 1847; point of order. 1896, 1900.
Approval for letter to Swiss authorities, government position.
1901; m to refer question and message from Commons
qu, 2247-48
to com, 1966-67
Knowledge of Minister. government position, qu, 2268
Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Suspension bill, 1994, British
Columbia. concerns of constituents, 394
Motivation for RCMP investigation, government position,
Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Suspension, 1994 bill C- 18,
qu, 2249
341-42, 343, 344, 345, 346, 347, 637-39
Rank of RCMP officers engaged in investigation. qu. 2350
Redistribution process, 341
Lang, Hon. Daniel A., tributes on retirement, 614
Royal Commission on Electoral Reform (Lortie). 346
Lawson. Hon. Edward M., twenty-fifth anniversary of appointment
Energy. the Environment and Natural Resources Committee
to the Senate, 2096-97
Authority to engage services, 385, 386
LeBlanc, P.C.. Hon. Roméo, tributes on appointment as Governor
National Protected Areas Strategy. authority to conduct study, 387
General of Canada, 964-65
Euthanasia and Assisted Suicide. Special Senate Committee Report
Leblanc, the late Hon. Fernand E., tributes, 2553
I st, Budget. 587
Legal and Constitutional Affairs Committee
Everett. Hon. Douglas D., resignation from Senate, announcement
Motion instructing com to table final rep re C-69. 2272-76
and tributes, 20
Motion instructing com to table final rep re C-69 no later than
position,
Federal-provincial relations, status of relations, government
December 13.1995, 2444-46
qu, 397, 398
Notice of motion instructing com to table final rep re C-69, point
Firearms bill C-68, 1760, 1761; m instructing committee to table
of order, 2376, 2378, 2379, 2389, 2390, 2391, 2392
final report. 2123-24; m in amdt, 2124
Reports
First Nations Government bill S-10, 1620, 1622
2nd. Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Suspension. 1994
Foreign Affairs
bill C-18, 440, 441, 487. 489-91, 497. 498
Authority to meet during sittings of the Senate, 988-89, 1084
24-month suspension, 489, 490
States
Authority to monitor and report upon the Canada-United
8th, Pearson International Airport Agreements bill C-22, 789,
Free Trade Agreement and the North American Free
811
Trade Agreement, 391
14th, Electoral Boundaries Readjustment, 1995 bill C-69,
Foreign affairs, military intervention in Haiti and in Burma,
m and message from Commons, 2021. 2022: m in amdt,
government policy, qu, 628-29, (r) 851
2025-27; m in amdt, 2032
Frith. Hon. Royce, tributes on resignation from the Senate and
16th. Firearms bill C-68, with 14 amdts, 2339, 2340-41
appointmient as High Commissioner for Canada to the
Macquarrie, Hon. Heath, tributes on retirement, 718-19
United Kingdom, 84041
Maintenance of Railway Operations, 1995 bill C-77, considered in
Goods and Services Tax
Committee of the Whole, 1435-36, 1437, 1438, 1443,
Application on reading materials. qu, 849
1444
Removal of tax on reading materials, government position,
Marshall. Hon. Jack, tributes on retirement, 977
qu, 1214
Molgat, Hon. Gildas L.
Government, progress of legislation, govemment policy, qu, 42, 43
Felicitations on appointment as Speaker of the Senate, 948
Gun control legislation, presentation of petitions. 2090, 2132. 2177,
Twenth-fifth anniversay of appointment to the Senate, 2096-97
2247, 2400
Muir, Hon. Robert, tributes on retirement, 889
Human rights
National Defence Policy, proposed Special Joint Committee
Arms trading with transgressor nations, government policy,
Appointment. 155. 156
qu, 1376
National finance
Canada's historic leadership role, 545
Amount of deficit. government position, qu. 302. 303
Canada-China relations, governnent policy, 545
Deficit reduction plan, government position. 515
China, fifth anniversary of Tiananmen Square massacre, 543. 544
National Finance Committee reports
with Turkey on sale of aircraft, government position,
Discussions
6th, Main Estimates 1994-95, 657
qu, 1376
10th, Supplementary Estimates (B) and (C), 1994-95, 1076, 1077
Possibility of imposing embargoes on transgressor countries,
Internal Economy Committee and Treasury Board, 1076. 1077
government position. qu, 1682
Supplementary Estimates for the Senate, 1076, 1077
Request for debate on human rights and trade, government
National Unity, result of Quebec Referendum. st. 2147
position, 914
Neiman, Hon. Joan, tribute on retirement, 2039
Three Gorges Dam Project
New senators, 839
Displacement of Chinese citizens, government position, qu, 914
Introduction, 869. 991-92, 1447-48, 2059-60, 2550
Financial assistance, government position, qu, 914
North American Free Trade Agreement. inclusion of Chile,
Indian affairs. status of negotiations on Oka. role of chief federal
influence on existing agreement. government position,
negotiator, qu, 512, 513
qu, 1705, 1706. (r) 2114
Internal Economy, Budgets and Administration Committee reports
Official languages. access to francophones to Internet network. 1652
4th. Canada's Foreign Policy, Special Joint Committee budget.
Ontario, Progressive Conservative victory in provincial election,
450. 477
st. 1797
5th. Canada's Defence Policy. Special Joint Committee budget.
Ontario Court General Division. m to strike special committee to
477
examine and report upon the conduct and behaviour of
22nd. respecting m to print Volume I of Special Joint Committee
certain officers and justices. point of order. 1628: point
on Reviewing Canada's Foreign Policy. 1603. 1604.
oforder. 2170. 2171. 2172
1605. 1607
Parliament. prograni of legislation. goverment policy. qu. 282. 283
Senate budget 1994-95, 102

Lvnch-Staunton, Hon. John-Cont <
Pearson Airport Agreements. Special Senate Committce report
3rd. reserving, right to hold further hearings and adjourning with
no appointed date. 2593, 2594, 2621 22. 2623. 2624-25
Pearson International Airport Agreemnents bill C-22. 679. 693-95.
696. 778, 825-27. 829, 861-63
Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms. 695
Cancellation clause. 694
Denial of access to courts. 695. 696
Nixon Report, 679. 693-94
Royal Recommendation. 829
Points of order
Contravention of Rule 26. 240
Precincts of Parliament. tunnel between East Block and Centre
Block, request tor information. qu. 1166
Public Works
Cancellation of projects within parliamentary precincts.
government position. qu. 1215-16. (r) 1536
Consultation with Internai Economy Committee on cancellation
of project. qu. 1215. (r) 1536
Quebec. m for recognition as distinct society. 2454. 2470-73
Quebec naîionalism. inherent contradictions. inquiry. 611
Reviewing Canada's Foreign Policy
Motion to print Volume I of Special Joint Committee report.
1244-45. 1247
Ruling by Speaker of the House of Commons. point of order.
10W6 1018
Scrutiny of Regulations Committee report
2nd. Illegal dispensations. 1149-50
Rules of joint committees. 1149-50
Selection Committee
Appointment. 16; m in amdt. 16
Authority to extend deadline for selection of members of Special
Committee on Pearson Air-pori Agreements, 1632
Report
2nd. membership of committees. 24
Senate
Bolduc, Maurice, telicitations on election as President of
l'Association protessionnelle des stenographes officiels
du Québec. st. 1583
Distribution of Debates and Minutes to Members of the House of
Commons, qu. 550-SI
Status of Senator Kinsella. 2091
Social affairs. amount of fundîng available for child care straîegly.
g'overnment position. qu. 1375. 1376. (r) 1553
Social Affairs. Science and Technology Commnittee
Authonity to examine Veterans Health Care Regulations. 107-08
South Africa. first democratic elections. înquiry. 421
Spicer. Erik J.. Esq.. tribute on retirement as Parîîamentary Librarian
and designation as Parîîamientary Librarian Emieritus.
277
Sylvain, Hon. John. tributes on resignation trom Senate. 255 1
Transport
Measure to terminate railway strike. considered in Committee ut
the Whole. 1382. 1383. 1384. 1392. 1393. 1397. 1398.
1399. 1402. 1403. 1409. 1410. 1417. 1418. 1421. 1424.
1425
New Brunswick rail service. inquiry 962
Pearson Airport agreements
Authorshîp ot departmental report. request l'or clarification.
qu. 1469-70, (r) 1534
Implications of alleged invoîvement of Prime Minister. request
f'or clarification. qu. 1472
Instructions to Mr. Nixon on bis mandate to rcsiew.
g1overnment position. qu. 1470. fit) 1537
Possiblc gox'crnmcnt incluiiy. st. 880
Verbal statcmnnt of Minister ofi Tra:nspor t. icquest toi wi itten
confirmation. îlu. 1535
Pear son Internlat ional A irpori
CancelI ition of cases ics centini cdcs elopmcinî o)Iin inI
and 2. cos ernnîn positionr. qu. 15 35

Lvýncli-Staunton, Hon. John-Cont 'd
Pearson International Airport-Coni'd
Comments of minister on delay in renovations on TerminaIs I
and 2, government position. qu. 1585
Delay in redevelopment ot Terminais I and 2, government
position. 1452. (r) 1536-37
Importance of passage of Bill C-22 to developmenî. statement
by Leader of the Govemment. st. 1295
Motion to strike Special Committee to inquire mbt
prîvatîzation
contracts. 1590-92
Request for governmenî response. qu. 1529. 1530
Transter of administration to local airpori authority. nature of
legal impedîment, qu. 1500. 1501
Pearson International Airport. m to strike Special Committee îo
inquire mbt
privatization contracts. 1282. 1350-52
Pearson Intemnational Airport redevelopment. alleged involvemeni
of Prime Minister. qu. 1451
Public statements by Minister ot Transport regarding motives of
certain senators. qu. 1283, 1284
Position of Leader of the Government. qu. 1298. 1299.
(r) 1361-62
Timing of vote on motion to strike Special Commitee. request for
response. qu. 1530, 1531
Transport and Communications Committee
Authorîty t0 continue special study on report of National
Transportation Act Review Commission. 234
Authority to meet during sitting of the Senate. 527
Veterans affairs. mi t0 urge government to provide site for Canadian
Vietnam Veterans' Memorial. m in amdt. 521
Veterans Appeal Board. Order in Councl appointment. government
position. 554
Vîsît of United States President to Ottawa. st. 1248
West Coast Ports Operations. 1994 bill C-10. consîdcred in
Committee of the Who le. 69. 73, 74
West Coast Ports Operations. 1995 bill C-74. 1316, considered in
Committee ot the Whole. 1325-26. 1327, 1330). 1331,
1331. 1333
World Trade Organization Agreement Implementation bill C-57,
1070-71. 1073. 1164
MacDonald, Hon. Finlay
Atlantic Canada. dependence on Scotia Synfuels project.
reinstatement of special invesîment tax credit.
govemment position. qu. 186-87. 517. (r) 555
Auditor General amendiment bill C 207. 663
Budget Impiementation. 1994 bill C- 17, 556
Canada Student Finance Assistance bill C-28. 712
Canadian Film Development Corporation arnendment bill C-31, 660
Provinces' role of counterpoint. 660
Electoral Boundaries Commission. revisions to rîding boundaries.
status of hearingas. qu. 284
Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Suspension. 1994 bill C- 18K 639
Energy. Scotia Synfuels project. production of synthetic fuels,
st. 202
Energy. the Environment and Natural Resources Committee
Empowered to permit coverage of meeting by electronic media.
1293.,1294
Ethics Counseilor. Joint Committee on Code of Conduct. relevance
to parliamentarians. qu. 2383-84
Excise. Customs, Tobacco Sales to Young Persons amendment
billC- 11.ý673
Clearing stocks of kiddy packs, 673
Foi-eign Affairs Committee. authoriîy to meet durin- sitîîng of the
Senate. 1925
Frîîh. Hon. Royce. tibutes on resignation froin the Senate and
app)ointment as High Comimissionci foi Canada to the
Uited Kingdom.i 841
InternaI Econoivi\ Budgets and Administration Commiiittce ireport
4th. Canada's Fori-en,, Policý. Spccial Joint Commnitîce hudet.
449
Joint Pai lianientarsý dc Icoation. officiai vs su to Brai. inqL[i[-N. 2 lOI

INDEX
MacDonald, Hon. Finlay-Cont 'd
Justice. re-establishment of Law Reform Commission. legislative
agenda. qu. 2507. 2508

Lang. Hon. Daniel A.. tributes on retirement. 615
New senators. introduction. 992
Nova Scotia. success of private shortline railway operations. st, 352
Pearson Airport Agreements Special Senate Committee
Authority to meet during sittings of the Senate, 1958
Change in date of first public hearing. 1888
Reports
Ist. Budget, 1739. 1770, 1771

2nd. Address to His Excellency the Governor General
requesting documents. 2109. 2143-45; m in amdt.
2160-61
3rd, reserving right to hold further hearings and adjourning
with no appointed date, 2486, 2584-86, 2587-91
Point of order (Senators' Statements), 546
Powers of parliamentary committees. paper referred to Standing
Senate Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs.
1070. 1129-30
Ritchie. the late Charles Stewart Almon, tribute. 1738-39
Scotia Synfuels Project. grandfathering of investmrent tax credit,
tabled, 996
Second World War, participation of Canadian troops in Italian
Campaign, inquiry. 783
Senate. criticismi by members of the media, correction, 2444
Transport
Importance of passage of Bill C-22 to development of Pearson
International Airport. governiment position, qu. 1285
Existence of any impediment to redevelopment of Pearson
Airport. government position. qu, 1303, (r) 1361-62
Pearson Airport agreements
Definition of legislative solution,. government position.
qu, 1471
Legisiative solution to dispute. government position. qu. 1587,
1588
Request for public inquiry. govemrment position. qu. 901. 902
Pearson International Airport
Cancellation of lease agreement. qu. 1040-41. (r) 1169
Nominees to Canadian Airport Authority, government position,
qu, 912-13, (r) 1011- 12
See appendix, p. 1023
Possible negotiation of lease, government position. qu, 985-86.
(r) 10 12
Remaining impediments to redevelopment. qu. Il132
Radio Canada International, invitation to Minister of Foreign
Affairs and International Trade to respond to Senate
committee report. qu. 1227
Relationship of Canadian Airport Authority to development of
Pearson International Airport. qu. 913
Transport and Communications Committee
Radio Canada International. authority to study implications of
reduction in funding. 200
Veterans Review and Appeal Board bill C-67, 1665-66
Bureau of Pensions Advocates. 1665
Humant cost of bill, 1665
Merging Canadian Pension Commission and Veterans Appeal
Board, 1665
Minister's power, 1665
Macdonald, Hon. John M.
Muir. Hon. Robert. tributes on retirement. 890-91
Tributes on eighty-ninth birthday. 1571-72
Veterans affairs. Royal Canadian Legion. inquiry. 856. 877-79
Head-dress policy. 878-79

MacEachen, P.C., Hon. Allan J.-Conr 'd
Foreign affairs
G-7 Halifax summit. request for tabling of pertinent documents.
qu. 1839
Sierra Leone, proposed national elections. contributions to support
fundgovernment position. qu, 2466-67
Strategay for G-7 summit. recommendations of Joint Committee
Reviewing Canada's Foreign Policy. st. 1631
Internai Economy. Budgets and Administration Committee reports
I 3th. Senate Estimates 1995-96. adopted. 1176-77
International activities of parliamentarians, 1177
I 7th. Parliamentary Associations. 1231
22nd. respecting ri to print Volume 1 of Special Joint Committee
on Reviewing Canada's Foreign Policy. 1606-07
LeBîanc. P.C.. Hon. Romé~o, tributes on appolntment as Governor
General of Canada, 970
Muir. Hon. Robert, tributes on retirement, 891-92
Privileges, Standing Rules and Orders. point of order. 1781
Reviewing Canada's Foreign Policy. Special Joint Committee
Motion to print Volume 1 of Special Joint Committee Report,
1211, 1233-34. 1245. 1246, 1247, 1314
Report. tabled, 916, 944-47
Bipolar world order. 945
International security. 946
Sustainable development, 945
Trade interests. 945
Ruling by Speaker of the House of Commons. point of order,
1014. 1015-16. 1018; Speaker's ruling. 1193-94
Dissenting opinion. 1014, 1016
Minority reports, 1016
Shared couts of joint comrmttees. 1016
Stand-alone reports. 10 14
Transport, Pearson International Airport, m to strike Special
Committee to inquire into privatization contracts, 1580
Trudeau and Our linzes, misleading information in Globe and Mail
book review. st. 1157
United Nations
Fiftieth anniversary of founiding. st, 1922
Fourth World Conference on Women, Beijing. China. inquiry.
2239

Vatican delegation. role of, 2239
Humant rights in China, defeat of resolution. request for copy of
text, qu. 2211
World Trade Organization Agreement Implementation bill C-57.
1173-74

Macquamre, Hon. Heath (retired Sept. 18/94)
Foreign affairs. economic assistance to Middle East, government
position, qu. 501, (r) 586-87
Foreign policy, congratulations on goverrament initiatives, st. 685-86
Middle East, peacemaldng efforts. st. 91
Prince Edward Island
Fixed link, change in design of bridge, environmental assessment
review process. government position, qu. 185, 186
to
Fixed Iink. mn amend Constitution of Canada. 172, 204. 227-29,
242. 243

Dredging. 228
Dust storms. 228
Environmental Assessment Review Panel. 228
Wood Islands-Caribou ferry. 242
Transfer of Northumberland Strait Bridge office to Charlottetown,
tabled. 851-52
Upgrading of Char lottctown Harbour facilities. tabled, 852
Spicer. Erik J.. Esq.. tribute on retirement as Parliamnentary Librarian
and designation as Parliamentary Librarian Emeritus.
'278

Tributes on retirement. 718-26
MacEachen. P.C., Hon. Allan .
Appropriation No. 4. 1994-95 bill C-79. 1456. 1457
Constitutional Amendments bill C-I110. Special Senate Commiiittee

report. 2614-16. 2618

Maheu, Hon. Shirley (introduced Fcb. 1/96). 2250-5I
Tribute on appointment to Senate. 2606

Mlaintenance of Railway Operations, 1995 bill C-77. 1Ir. 1428;
2r, 1428-34: ref' to Comnmittee ol' the Wholc. 1434:
consideration in Committee of the Whole. Hon. Eyrnard
G. Corbin in the Chair. Hon. Lucienne Robillard taking
part in the debate. 1434-45: rep without amdt. 1445;
3r. 1445; r.a.. chap. 6. 1995. 1446
Agriculture, 1429
Collective baroainno 1429
Conciliation commissioner's report. 1432, 1433
Conciliation officers. 1429
Mediation-arbitration commissions. 1430
Minister of Labour. role of. 1431. 1432
Railroading requirements. 1434
Speakers: Senators
Andreychuk, A. Raynell. 1441. 1442
Beaudoin. Gérald-A.. 1441
Corbin, Eymard G.. 1445
Doody. C. William. 1439
Fairbairn, Joyce. 1428-31. 1434
Graham,. B. Alasdair. 1445
Kinsella. Noël A.. 1440. 1441. 1445
Lynch-Staunton. John, 1435--36, 1437. 1438. 1443. 1444
Murray. Lowell. 1431-34, 1437T 1441. 1445
OIson. H.A.. 1434
Stewart. John B.. 1439. 1440. 1443. 1444
and witness in Committee of the Whole
Robillard. Hon. Lucienne. Minister of Labour. 1435. 1436.
1437-38, 1439. 1440, 1441-42, 1443. 1444
Major, Hon. John, Puisne Judge of the Supremne Court of Canada
Royal Assent. 76. 2410-11, 2546-47
Manitoba
Federal environmental assessment of' lorestry proîccts. goverrmnt
position. qu. 24(05
One hundred and twenty-fifth anniversary of legisiation. st. 163t0-31I
Progressive Conservative victory in provincial electjon. st. 1544
Marchand, P.C., Hon. Len
Aboriginal Peoples Committee. authority to examine and report
upon the treatment of aboriginal veterans tollowing
World War I. World War Il and the Korean War. 8-9.
37-39
Manitoba Justice Inquiry. 38. 39
Metis veterans. 38. 39
National Aboriginal Veterans Association. 39
Transfer of land ownership. 38, 39
British Columbia Treaty Commission bill C-107, 2406-07, 2423.
2508
Commissioners. 2407
First Nations Summit. 2407
Regional advisory committees. 2407
Treaty Negotiation Advisory Committee. 2407
Diefenbaker, the late Rt. Hon. John George. one hundredth
anniversary of birthday. st, 2089
Muir. Hon. Robert. tributes on retirement. 893
Pictou Landing Indian Band Agreement bill C-60. 1255-56
Boat Harbour Final Agreement. 1255. 1256
Compensation. 1255. 1256
Indian moneys. 1256
Relocation fund. 1255. 1256
Riparian rights. 1255
Treatment facility. 1255. 1256
Spor t. Memnorial Cup champions. congratulation,, 10 Kamiloops
Blazers Hockey Team. si, 481
Yukon Fii-st Nations Sel t- gos ci îîîî cnt bilIl C-34. 760-1)
B.C. land settlcmnns. 7601
Marine Atlantic, NIA. Bluenose ferry service, iahlcd. 2083

Marine Transportation Security bill C-38. fi-. 912: 2r, 920 23:
iefto com. 923: rep without aindt. 984: 3r. 996-97:
r.a.. chap. 40. 1994. 1177
Cruise industry. 92 1. 922. 996
Ecoterrorism., 997
Foreign ships. 922
Intemnational Maritime Organization Standards. 921. 922
Law of the Sea. 922
Marine disasters. 920
Montego Bay Convention. 996. 997
NAFTA. 922
Piracy and traud. 922. 923
Securîty entorcement. 997
Ship identification number scheme. 922
Terronism. 920. 921. 996
Violence against passenger vessels. 921
Speakers: Senators
Kelly. William M.. 996-97
Petten. William J.. 920-21. 996. 997
St. Germain. Gerry. 921-23

Marshall, Hon. Jack (retired Nos. 26/04)
Business of the Senate. 139, 484
Canada 125. breakdlown of distribution of medals. tabled. 852
Canada Pension Commission. exceptional incapacity allowance.
tabled. 202
Canadian Broadcastîng Corporation. evaluation ot operations of
corporation. qu. 252. (r) 325
Canada's Foreign Policy. Special Joint Committee
Motion to appoint. 255
Carter. the late Hon. Cheslcy William. tribute. 77
Coastal Fisheries Protection Act. protection and mnanagement ot
straddlîng stocks. tabled. 852
Coastal Fisheries Protection amendment bill C-29. 461-62;
considered in Committee of the Whole. 473
Composition of Advisor-y Board of Canadian Broadcasting
Corporation. tabled. 852
Estîmates. 1993-94. National Finance Committee. authority to study
Supplementary Estîmates <B). 203-04
Estimates. 1994-95
Reduction in services to veterans. tabled. 517
Unemployment insurance cuts. plight of' lobster fishermen.
qu. 166, (r) 221
Ethics Counsellor. détails of terms of reference. tabled. 852
Fisheries and oceans. 1993 Canadian fish exports. tabled. 239
Health. extension of Veterans îndependence Program to senior
citizens. inquiry. 78. 195. 196-98
Accessibilîty to hospital services. 196
Acute care. 196
Ambulatory health care. 197
Home adaptations. 197
Home care. 197
Transportation services. 197
Industry. Trade and Commerce. Hibernia drilling modules. tabled.
310
Korean and Second World War. information from Soviet Archives
on disposition of armed forces personnel missing in
action. tabled. 996
Merchant Navy Veteran and Civilian War-related Benefits Act.
effect on parallel legislation. st. 248
Merchant navy veteran and cîvilian war-related benefits amcndment
bill S-4. 92. 156-57. 26<)
Merchant navy seterans
Canadian volunteer scrvice medal. tabled. 202
tabled 505
51:11' of* benci i cliims i
'
Natiîonal Dl)clnce. Consultaivse Commiiitice on Social ClianLe.
îabied. I138
National Dl)clncc Polic\. proposed Special Joint Commiitcee
Applointiiient. I 1

INDEX
Marshall, Hon. Jack-Conr 'd
Marshall, Hon. Jack-Cont 'd
Veterans affairs-Con t'd
National defence
Status of pertinent legislation. tabled. 517
Costs of cancelling helicopter program. tabled. 852
Veterans Independence Program. qualification of veterans. qu. 222
Present structure and facilities of Canadian Forces training
Veterans' pensions and entitlements. tabled. 672
system. tabled, 852
War medal s and awards. tabled. 3 10
Reduction of Canadian forces capability. government position.
Veterans Affairs Canada
qu. 359-60. (r) 435-36
Breakdown of deployment of staff. tabled, 239
Reduction of military personnel, government policy, st. 352
Vacancies in Corner Brook District Office. tabled. 203
Testing of LSVW vehicles. tabled, 852
Veterans Independence Program, qualification of veterans. tabled.
National Film Board, failure to fulfil commitment, inquiry, 302,
202
681-82
Veterans Land Administration, status of activities under Veterans
National Community Tree Foundation Program. tabled. 336
Land Act, tabled. 852
Newfoundland
Canadian Forces Reserves, tabled. 310
Mass media, existing principles of journalism. movement to abolish.
Effects of federal infrastructure program, tabled. 239
st. 1486
Council, tabled, 310
Order of Canada. status of Advisory
Selection Committee report
McDermnott, Mr. Michael
2nd, membership of committees. 24-25
West Coast Ports Operations. 1994 bill C-10, considered in
Social Affairs. Science and Technology Committee
Commnittee of the Whole. 6S7
Authority to examine future development of Department of
Veterans Affairs. 110. 176 350-51
MeLachlin, Hon. Beverley, Puisne Judge of the Supreme Court of
Authority to examine Veterans Health Care Regulations. 42.
Canada
107, 108
withdrawn.
Royal Assent. 298. 1334, 1498
Report
5th. future development of the Departmcnt of Veterans Affairs.
Meighen, Hon. Michael E.
tabled. 898-900
Banking-, Trade and Commerce Committee report
Subcommittee on Veterans Affairs authorized to meet during
13th, study of state of Canadian financial system. 1049
sitting of the Senate. 689
Regaulator. 1049
Tributes on papal citation of special recognition, 845
Canada's Defence Policy. Special Joint Committee report, 1 18-23,
on retirement, 977-82
Tributes
t1124
Veterans affairs
Civilian employees, 1120
Benny Farm housing project. approval of CM1C proposaI.
Cuts in headquarters staff. 1120
st. 181-82
Militia. 1122
Breakdown of pensionable disabilities. tabled. 852
National Defence White Paper. Il 19, 1120. 1121, 1122, 1123
Canada's role in World War Il. st. 481-82, 509
Reduction of forces, 1120
to
Canadian veterans of Korean War, mn examine inconsistencies
Reserves. 1121, 1122. 1123
recognition of service. 184
in
Submarines, 1121
st, 300
Canadian Vietnam Veterans' Memorial.
Training, 1122
Inquiry, 109-10, 173-75, 194. 195
Youth Training and Education Program., 1122
Motion to provide site for memorial. 176, 428-30. 431, 432.
433. 506, 507. 518-19
Member of Parlianient, definition. st, 2381
49th parallel. 519
Motion in amdt, 519-20. 521
Members of Parliament Retiring Allowances amendment bill C-85.
National Capital Commission mandate. 518, 519
Ir. 1913; 2r, 1938-42; ref to comn, 1942; rep without
Peacekeeping. 518
amdt. 1978; 3r. 2013-18; point of order 2018;
Point of order, 436-37
3r (con't). on div. 2018-19; r.a.. chap. 30. 1995. 2057
U.S. Embassy in Ottawa, 519
Assad plan, 1939-40
Vietnam War. Canada's role, 518
Common-Iaw relationships. 2017
Presentation of petitions, 250, 267, 282, 302, 354, 501, 880
Compensation. 1938, 1939, 1940
Dental care for veterans. tabled. 3 10
Double dipping. 1938, 1939. 1940, 1941. 1942. 2016, 2017
Dieppe Raid. m to honour veterans by creating commemorative
Minimum age. 1939
decoration, 302. 375-76
Speakers: Senators
Disability pension applications to Canadian Pension Commission,
Berntson. Eric Arthur, 1940
tabled, 852
Corbin. Eymard G.. 2015-16, 2018
De Bané, Pierre. 1938-40, 1942
Entitlement under War Veterans Allowance. tabled, 852
Fairbairn. Joyce. 2018-19
Fiftieth annîversary of D-Day. inquiry. 354, 407-09
Canada Remembers Program. 407
Forrestaîl. J.Michael, 2016
Graham. B. Alasdair, 2013
Fiftieth anniversary of World War II battles, st, 40-41
Prud'homme. Marcel. 1940-42, 2016-18, 2019
Financial support to veterans associations, tabled. 852
Particulars of Canadian Forces personnel deployed in South East
Simard. Jean-Maurice, 2013-15
Asia, tabled, 852
Merchant navy veteran and civilian war-related beneits
Particulars of staffing. tabled. 852
amendment bll S-4. Ir, 92; 2r, 156-57. 173, 193. 243.
Proposed site uf Canadiaji Vietnam Veterans' Memorial, st. 213
259-60. 606
Recipients of disability pensions. tabled. 852
Speakers: Senators
Recommendations to Task Force on Program Review. tabled. 765
Berntson. Eric Arthur. 606
Responsibility for administering the Pension Act. tabled. 852
Marshall. Jack. 156-57. 260
Shaughnessy Hospital, British Columbia. tabled. 310
Molgat. Gildas L.. 173, 193, 243. 259-60
Stalag Luft Ill. fiftieth anniversary of "The Great Escape".
st. 279-80
Merchant navy veterans. Canadian volunteer service medal,
Status of Canada trainino reculations. tahled. 852
tabled. 202
Status of mierchant navy \ýetci-ans. inquiry. 320. withdrawn. 682

Metropolitan Toronto
National Forum on Health. lacs- of represenhation of region.
,overnmenr position. qu. 903
Proposais for Social Reform. Iack of' representation on working
group, -vriment
position, qu. 902-03, (r) 1228-29
Mexico, present state of afTairs. inquiiy. 1339, 1510-13
NAFFA. 1510. 1511, 1512, 1513
Polies. 1510-13
Speaker: Senator
Stollery. Peter A.. 1510-13
Middle East, peacemaking efforts. 91
Migratory Birds Convention, 1994 bill C-23. 1r. 627: 2r, 699-702:
ref to com. 702: rep without anidt. 726; 3r, 726;
r.a.. chap. 22. 1994, 773
Aboriginal rights. 701, 702
Comimercialization. 699
Court authority. 700
Detorestation, 702
Enforcement. 700
Fines. 700. 701
Came officers. 700
Hunting and use. 699
International North American Waterfowl Management Plan. 700
Latin American program. 700
Memnorandum of Understanding with Mexico. 701
Permit programs. 700
Poaching and smuggling. 700
Recreational activities. 699
Sanctuaries. 699
Traditional hunting. 701
Tratficking. 699
Urban sprawl. 702
Waterfnwl census. 701
Waterfowl harvestin., 701
Wildlife conservation. 700
Speakers: Senators
Kenny. Colin. 699-701
Spivak. Mira. 701-02
Miles, Johnny, Cape Breton marathoner. tributes on ninetieth birthdav.
st. 2131-32
Military College
See Budget
National 1)efence
Milne, Hon. Lorna (introduced in the Senate Oct. 3/95). 2058-60
Firearms bill, letter inviting submissions to travelling panels ot
senators. st. 2206
Gun control legislation. st. 2314
Legaal and Constitutional Affairs Committee report
l6th. Firearms bill C-68, with 14 amndts. 2287-90
Charter of Rig-hts and Freedoms. 2289
Cost. 2290
Customs. 2290
Decriminalization. 2288
Delayed implementation. 2289
Gos ernor in Council. 2288
I nierpi ou oci il sinuelîlng. 2289)
Opting-in formula. 2289. 2290
Pi-oxincia aLîthorii to egi slate crinfin il h m. 2289
ReLmsrtiîon 228
Rcg-ulation. 2288. 2289

Ministerial response tu Senate Committee reports, inquiry. 2153.
2222-26
Speakers: Senators
Carney. Pat. 2153. 2222-26
Lucier. Paul, 2226
Ministry, lack of focus of Cabinet ministers. qu. 666
Ministry of Canadian Heritage, tunding levels for national sports
organîzation. tabled. 1170
Miscellaneous Statute Law Amendment, 1994 bill C-40. I r. 687;
2r. 704-05: 3r. 729; r.a.. chap. 26. 1994. 773
Speakers: Senators
Beaudoin. Cerald-A.. 705
Bosa. Peter. 729
DeWare. Mabel M.. 705
Neiman. Joan, 704-OS
Miscellaneous

Statute Law Amendments, ref ho com. 5 10-11:
rep. 547-48

Molgat, Hon. Gildas L., I)eputy Leader of the Government
Aboriginal Peoples Committee. authority to meet during sitting of
the Senate. 872
Address in reply to Speech from the Throne. 243. 259
Termination of debate on eighth sitting day. 8. 36
Adjoumment. 2. 103, 104. 184, 214. 298. 301.ý 350. 353. 397. 42 1,
501, 871
Appropriation No. 3, 1993-94 bill C- 19, 267. 268. 273-74. 287
Increases and decreases. 274
Appropriation No. i. 1994-95 bill C 20. 267. 268. 274. 287
Army Cadet League of Canada. Myriam Bedard, recognition of'
involvement as army cadet. st. 182
Bankîng. Trade and Commerce Coinmittee report
Sth. Income Tax amendmnent bill C-9. 332
Borrowing authorîty 1994-95 bill C- 14. 282
Budget
Proposed ciosure of Royal Milîîary College of Si lean, reversai of
decîsion. government position. 218
Business of the Senate. 41. 63, 64. 78. 138. 139, 207. 208. 239-40.
275, 281-82. 298. 379, 462. 483. 484. 837. 868. 877,
882.,935
Adjourniment. 25. 75. 103. 104. 173. 249. 250. 845, 866-67,
900-01,.911. 933
Authority for committees to meet during adýjournments of the
Senate. 183-84
Authority for select committees ho meet during adjourniments of'
the Senate. 203
Budgets of committeex. 395
Proposed agenda. 9
Canada Oul and Cas Operations. Canada Petroleum Resources.
National Energy Board amendment bill C-6, 353
Canada Petroleum Resources amendment bill C-25. 846
Canada's Foreign Policy. Speciai Joint Committee
Authority to extend date of presentation of final report. 871, 887
Motion to appoint. 215, 252-53, 255
Carter the late Hon. Chesley William. tribute. 77
Clerk's accounts. ref to com. 25. 880
Coastal Fisheries Protection amendment bill C-29. 451. 460;
considered in Commiitee of the Whole. 462., 476
Criminal Law Amendmient. 1994 bill C-42. 887
Crown Liability and Proceedings amendment bill C-4, 353. 450-51
Bill wîthdrawn trom com and ref to another. m adopted. 407
l)avey. Hon. Keîth and Hastingis. Hon. Earl A.. trîbutes on
twenty-eîghth anniveixarx of appointments to Senate.
st. 159
i ecax cd :inxsx rs to oralI questions. 114, i 37-38. 166, 220-22,
286 87. 30K. 324-25. 401-02.423-24. 435-36. 454-56,
50)4-05. 849-51
Ans..xsci s to Oidei Paper questons tablcd. 13K. 188. 21)2 1ý3.31)
.330. 361). 402. 505. 85 1-52

INDEX
Molgat, Hon. Gildas L.,-Coiild
Molgat, Hon. Gildas L.,-Coit 'd
Officiai Languages. Joint Committee
Delayed answers-Cont'd
Authority to, meet during adjourniments of the Senate. 202.
Request for answers, 915
withdrawn, 317
mn
Department of National Revenue amendiment bill C-2. 456
Authority to, meet during sitting of the Senate. 354
Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Suspension, 1994 bill C-18. 302.
Estimates. 1994-95. Privy Council Vote 20 ref. 160, 161
342. 343, 344, 345-46. 347, 348
Parks Canada, user fees, government position. 934
Electoral boundaries commissions. 345
Post-secondary education. growth in revenue from EPF transfers tax
Equality of voting power, 342
points. possibility of transfer to institutions. 935
Redistribution process. 347
Prince Edward Island
Representation by population. 342
Fixed link, m to, amend Constitution of Canada. 110, 166-67. 229,
Royal Commission on Electoral Reform (Lortie). 343
243
Energy. the Environment and Natural Resources Committee
Railway Safety amendment bill C-2 1, 476
National Protected Areas Strategy. authority to conduct study.
Railways bill S-1, 5
386, 390
Scrutiny of Regulations. Joint Comrnittee
Estimates. 1993-94
Authority to meet during adjourniments of the Senate. 202;
Supplementary Estimates (B). tabled, 183, ref to comn, 184.
mn
withdrawn. 317
203-04
Second World War. participation of Canadian troops in Italian
Estimates, 1994-95. tabled. 159. ref to com. 160
Campaign, inquiry. 877
Authority for Standing Joint Committee on the Library of
Selection Committee
of the Estimates. 184, 203
Parliament to study Vote 10
Appointment. 6
Supplementary Estimates (B). ref to, com. 911-12
Report
Supplementary Estimates (C). tabled. 932, ref to com. 932-33
2nd. membership of commiùttees. 24
Euthanasia and Assisted Suicide Special Commiùttee
Senate
Authority to meet during sitting of the Senate. 484
Absence of Govemment Leader, 934
Report
Recognition of the role of women during Royal Assent. 299
camnera, adopted.
2nd. Power to hold occasional meetings in
Tribute to departing page, st, 392
745
Social Affairs. Science and Technology Committee
Everett, Hon. Douglas D., resignation from Senate. annouincement
Authority to, examine and report upon future development of
and tributes, 19-20
Department of Veterans Affairs. 176, 351
Excise. Customs. Tobacco Sales to Young Persons amendment
Split Lake Cree First Nation Flooded Land bill C-36. 943, 944
billC- 11. 915
St. Patrick's Day. felicitations, 222
Excise Tax amendmnent bill C- 13. 425
Transport
Federal-Provincial Fiscal Arrangements and Federal Post-Secondary
Search and rescue. replacement of Sea King helicopter fleet.
Education and Health Contributions amendment
government position, request for answer. qu, 882
bill C-3, 267
Transport and communications, marine safety. Ad Hoc Committee
on Lightstations, govemnment position. 932
Fisheries Committee. authority to examine annual report of
adopted, 411
Transport and Communications Committee
Department of Fisheries and Oceans, mn
Authority to continue special study on report of National
Forestry. Clayoquot Sound, grant by CIDA to protest group against
Transportation Act Review Commission, 234. 887, 888
logging, govemment position, request for answer, 935
Authority to meet during Senate sitting. 866
Fournier, the late Hon. Edgar. tributes. 449
to,
Marine safety. mn expand role of lightstations. 233
General Security Insurance Company of Canada bill S-3. 173
Veterans Affairs. Veterans Independence ProgrTam. qualification of
Heaith
veterans, 222
Extension of Veterans Independence Programn to senior citizens,
Veterans affairs
inquiry, 195, 198
Canadian Vietnam Veterans' Memorial. mi to provide site for
Impact of changes te, tobacco taxes. inquiry. 319
memorial. 176, 431. 433, 507-08
Income Tax amendment bilI C-9. 360
Abbaye D'Ardennes, 508
Income Tax Amendments Revision Bill C- 15. 425
Battie of Normandy Foundation, 508
Income Tax Conventions bill S-2, 41
Caen Memorial, 508
Infrastructure programn. request of municipalities of Canada. st. 394
Canada Remembers Program. 407, 507
Internai Economy. Budgets and Administration Committee report
to,
Dieppe raid. mn honour veterans by creating commemorative
Senate budget 1994-95. 7, 37, 89. 103
decoration, 376-77
International Assembly of French-speaking Parliamentarians.
Establishment of Memnorial Gardens in Caen, France. st. 213
nineteenth General Assembly, report tabled, 42
West Coast Ports Operations. 1994 bill C-10. considered in
Legal and Constitutional Affairs Comimittee reports
Committee of the Whole, 70. 75
2nd, Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Suspension, 1994
Western grain transportation, Crow Rate, direct payment to farmers.
bill C- 18, 441,.498, 500
govemment position. 933
4th, interim. General Security Insurance Company of Canada
bill S-3, 482
Library of Parliamnent. Joint Committee
Molgat, Hon. Gildas L., Speaker of the Senate
Authority to meet during, adjourniments of the Senate. 202;
Appointment. 948
mn
withdrawn. 317
Campbell, the late Hon. Douglas L., tribute. 1673
Report
Congratulations on bis appointment as Speaker of the Senate. 983
lst. 369
Felicitations in appointment as Speaker of the Senate. 948-49
Merchant Navy Veteran and Civilian War-Related Benefits bill S-4.
Twenty-fifth anniversary of appointment te, the Senate. 2096-97
173. 193. 243. 259-60
National Defence Policy. proposed Special Joint Committee
Appointment. 155, 156
Muir, Sen. Robert (retired Nov. 10/94)
National Sports of Canada bill C-212. 441
Best wishe'. on recovery. 844
Official languages. annual report of comi-nissioner ref to coin.
Tributes on retirement. 889-96
301. 328

Multiculturalism, termination of redress discussions with ethnocultural
org'aniLations. st. 1235

Murray, P.C., Hon. LoweII
Address in reply to Speech trom the Throne. 188-91
Banking. Trade and Commerce Committee report
26th. Excise Tax. Icorne Tax amendment bill C- 103, 2481-83
Borrowing Authority. 1994-95 bill C- 14, 297
Budget
Impact of budget on Atlantic region. concept of fairness.
government position. qu. 165
Request for date of presentation. qu. 1225
Request for formai debate. governiment position. qu. 1227-28
Statement of Minîster of Finance. inquiry. 208-Il. 245. 265
Deficit. 208. 209
GST. 210
Harmonization. 210
Helicopter program. 20M. 210
Nationalism. 265
Pearson International Airpori. 210
Quebec nationalism. 265
Spending restraint. 209
Underground economy. 2 10
Unemployment rate. 208. 209
Budget Implementation bill. 1995. proposed amendments to retiect
national standards. request foi particulars. qui, 1635-36,
(r) 1745
Budget Implemnentation. 1995 bill C-76. 1770 1807-10. 1811
Budget 1995
Reform of OId Age Security
Eftect on elderly women of' application ot clawback to
household incorne. qu. 1287
Effect on older married wornen of application of clawhack to
household income. qu. 1252, 1253
Statement ofMinister of Finance. inquiry. 1261-63, 1367. 1525
Apriculture. 1262
Canada Jobs Strategy, 1262
Federal ernployment. 1261
Jnterest rates. 1261
Maritime Freight Rates Act, 1262
Social reform. 1263
Tobin tax, l52_5
Two-year targets. 1525
Unemployment insurance. 1262, 1263
Business of the Senate. 652. 1075. 1962
Adjourniment. 764. 2230)
Canada-China relations. human rights in China and Tibet. m, 1672
Canada Remembers. st. 1614-15
Chambers. the late Hon. Egan. tributes. 434
Constitutional amendments
Availability of' opportunity for the proposai of amendments.
governiment position. qu. 2416b 17
Clarification of situation in relation to aboriginal aspirations.
government position. qui. 2417
Schedule for consîderation of legislation. possibiliîy of pre-study.
governmenî position. qu., 2437. 2438
Constitutional amendments bill C- 110, 2518-21
Aboriginal self-government. 2518-19
Constitutional Amendments bill C- 110. Special Senate Commîttee
report. 2616-18
Correctional service. ref erraI of' tuberculosis problemn in
penîtentiaries to Mînisier of Health. governimeni
position. qu. 1239. (r) 1550-51
Elections Canada. elecioial boundaries readjusiment process.
tiransmlission of maps by Chief Elecioial ()fficei. icquesi
foi information. (lu. I1891
Electoraî Boundai ies Readjustmreni Suspension. 1994 bill C- 18.
3 12-14 31 i. 344 3-45. 346. 635-37
Consiiuncy bourdai ies. 31
(X'nsiti[iiOnaîliis Of bill. 3 14

Murray, P.C., Hon. LowelI Coi'd
Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Suspension-Co,îî'd
Decennial census. 313
Electoral boundaries commissions. 313
Equality of voting power. 313
Proportionate representation. 3 13
Redistribution process. 313. 314. 344. 345. 346
Representation by population. 312
Royal Commission on Electoral Reform (Lortie). 314
Timeframe for redistribution. 314
Electoral Boundaries Readjustment. 1995 bill C-69. 1558-61. 1726.
1727. 1730-3 1; vote delerred on m t0 adîjourn debate.
1844-45, 1851-52: m to concur with message trom
Commons. 1964-65; m to refer question and message
from Commons t0 com. 1965. 1968: alioment of time
f'or debate. 2201
Altemnate maps. 1559
Appointment of commissions. 1559
Criteria in drawing hou ndaries. 1560
Elimination of parliamentary stage. 1559
Equality of voting power. 1558. 1560. 1561
House of Commons growth. 1561
Operation of commissions. 1559
Public heaiigs. 1559
Public participation. 1559
Quinquennial census. 1559
Redistribution process. 1558, 1560
25 per cent maximum tolerance. 1560. 1561
Revîsion process. 1558
Transparency. 1559
Electoral Boundaries Readjustment. 1995 bill C-69, m to concuî
with message from Coînmons. 1837. 1838
Environinent. proclamation of Environmental Assessmenî Act.
status of draft regulations,. government timietable.
qu. 286, (r) 402
Estimates. 1994-95
Atlantic Canada Opportunities Agency, revîew of activities by
National Finance Committee, qu. 165
Euthanasia and Assisted Suicide. Special Committee report
2nd, Power 10 hold occasional meetings in caniera. adopted. 744
Excise Tax. Income tax amendment bill C-103, 2216-17. 2508-10
Canadian magazine industry, 2217
Spýorts IIiistrted. 2216, 2217
Foreign affairs. remarks of Senator Stollery on Mexico
Possibility of Canada's withdrawal from NAFTA. governiment
position, qui. 1522. (r) 2048
Request for answer. 1706
Response from Mexican Embassy. governmenî position. qu. 1522
Govemment Organization (federal agencies) bill C-65. 1977
Internai Economy. Budgets and Administration. polîcy on
administration of inter-parliamentary actîvities. equality
between Houses of Parliament. 1135
Internai Economy. Budgets and Administration Commîttee report
I 7th. Parliamentary Associations. 1207-08
Contracting out f'or professional services. 1207-08
Justice, gun control legislation, consultation wîth provinces prior to
introduction of legislation. governmenî position.
qu. 1662. (r) 1988-89
Leg-ai and Constitutional Affairs Committee
Motion instructing com to table final rep re C-69. point of order.
2426. 2428
Notice oh motion instrucîing coin t0 table final rep re C-69.
point of order. 2377-78
Reports
2nd. Elector-al Boundaries Readjusimcnt Suîspension, 199-4
8ih. Pearson Inteirnational Airpoi t Agi cemenis bill C-22.
810- 1 812
I f)h. Elcioi ai Bou odai i c Read stimeni. I1995 bill C-69.
1726. 1727

INDEX
Murray, P.C., Hon. Lowell Coni 'd
Legal and Constitutional Affairs Committee-C<rnt'd
I4th, Electoral Boundaries Readjustment. 1995 bill C-69.
in
and
mn message from Commons. 2020; mn amdt. 2029
reports

Macquarrie, Hon. Heath, tributes on retirement. 720-21I
Maintenance of Railway Operations. 1995 bill C-77, 1431-34;
considered in Committee of the Whole. 1437. 1441.
1445
Conciliation commissioner's report. 1432, 1433
Minister of Labour, role of. 1431, 1432
National finance
Bank of Canada rate. effect on interest rates. qu. 252, (r) 423-24
Goods and Services Tax, undertaking of Prime Minister on
deadjine on replacement, governiment position. qu. 2403
1nterest rate,*govemment policy. qu. 3 10
National Finance Standing Committee
Authority to meet during sittings of the Senate, 2348. 2363,
2399, 2515
Reports
I3th. Lobbyists Registration amendment bill C-43, 1727
l4th, Budget Implemnentation, 1995 bill C-76, 1773
15th, Supplementary report, Budget Implementation. 1995
bill C-76. tabled. 1796
l6th, Government Organization (federal agencies) bill C-65,
without amndt. 1977
17th, Members of Parliament Retiring Allowances amendment
bill C-85, without amdt. 1978
l8th, Royal Canadian Mint amendment bill C-82,
without amdt. 1978
l9th. Supplementary Estimates (A), 1995-96, 2398,
adopted. 2467-68
See Journals of the Senate
2Oth. National Housing amendment bill C-108, 2527
Neiman. Hon. Joan. tribute on reûrement. 2040
Old age security, undertaking of Prime Minister during referendum.
government position, qu, 2403
to
Ontario Court General Division, mn strike special committee to
examine and report upon the conduct and behaviour of
certain officers and justices, Il165, withdrawn
to
Ontario Court General Division, mn strike special committee to
examine and report upon the conduct and behaviour of
certain officers and justices, point of order, 1641
Parks Canada, restored Fortress at Louisbourg. Nova Scotia.
festivities 1995. st, 2009
Pearson Airport Agreements Special Committee report
2nd. Address to, His Excellency the Governor General requesting
documents, 2168
Pearson International Airport Agreements bill C-22, 775-78, 827,
829, 831
lnquiry. 776
Nixon Report, 777
'Notwithstanding" clause, 776
Royal Recommendation. 829
"Rule of law". 776, 777
Point of order. Reviewing Canada's Foreign Policy, ruling by
Speaker of the House of Commons. 10 16
Rules which apply to joint commnittees. 10 16
Stand-alone reports. 1016
Quehec nationalism., inherent contradictions, inquiry. 611
Quebec. Prime Minister's proposais, means of gaining necessary
consent of provinces. government position. qu. 2363
Question of Privilege. point of order. 931
Royal Canadian Mint amendment bill C-82. 1934
Selection Committee report
5th. membership of Code of Conduct Special Joint Committec.
1997
Senate. absence of approval f'or various projects. inquiry. 1053

Murray, P.C., Hon. Lowell C<>nt~'d
Transport
Federal Provincial Strategic Highway Improvement Program
Diversion of funds to Cape Breton Project. possible
interpretation by Auditor General of Canada.
government position, qu. 1650
Nova Scotia. diversion of funds to projects not covered by
agreements. government position. 1680. (r) 2047
Measure to terminate railway strike. considered in Committee of
the Whole. 1387. 1396-97, 1398
Pearson Airport Agreements
Legislative solution. request for particulars. qu. 1489
Transport Canada study. request for particulars. qu. 1491
Verbal statements of Minister of Transport. request for written
confirmation. qu. 1470
Railways work stoppage. status of negotiations at Canadian
Pacific Rail and VIA Rail. qu. 1359-60
Timing of vote on motion to strike Special Committee. request for
response. qu. 1531
Trans-Canada Highway. federal provincial agreements currently
in force. request for particulars. qu. 1680. (r) 1990
United Nations. resolution to hait nuclear testing. request for copy of
offending text. qu, 2209
Walker. P.C.. the late Hon. David James. tribute. 2063-64
West Coast Ports Operations. 1995 bill C-74, considered in
Committee of the Whole. 1331
World Trade Organization Agreement Implementation bill C-57.
1063. 1073
Cultural industries. 1063
1995 Budget Plan
Particulars on savings for Fisheries and Oceans. tabled. 1695
Particulars on savings respecting Department of Canadian Heritage.
tabled. 1695
National Anthem, obligation to, performi by members of the House of
Commons. consequences of demand by Reform Party,
st. 2347-48
National Child Day, st. 929-30. 2243
National Community Tree Foundation Prograni, tabled. 336
National Crime Prevention Council, details of operation and
composition. tabled. 1229
National Day of Remnembrançe
Anniversary of tragedy at l'École, Polytechnique, st. 1t056
Fifth anniversary of tragedy at l'Ecole Polytechnique. st, 1054-55
Sixth anniversary of tragedy at l'École Polytechnique. st. 2412-14
National defence
Annual maintenance costs for Sea King helicopter fleet. tabled. 1 12
Canadian Airbome Regiment
lnquiry into conduct. possibility of reinstatement, qu. 1253-54
Reasons for disbandment. qu, 1356-57. (r) 1986-87
Closure of Le Collège Militaire Royal de St-Jean. government
position. qu. 951
Closure of Royal Military College aI St-Jean. qu. 513-14. 602-03,
620-21. (r) 668. 669. 670-71
Related expenditures. request for information. qu. 630
Request for answers. qu. 629-30. 666
Request for information. qu. 603
Closure of Royal Military College at St-Jean. si. 617
Closure of St-Jean Miliîary Colle-le. st. 131
Compensation for cancelled EH- lO1 conîracts
Governnient position. qu. 1503. (r) 1554-55
Request for particulars. (lu. 1713. (r) 2074
Consequences of cuIs to transter paymients to provinces. gvrmn
position. (lu. 1254-55

National defence-Coint'd
Consultative Committee on Social Change. tabled. 138
Costs of cancelling helicopter program. tabled. 852
Details conceming status of airbus. tabled, 1637
Disbanding of Canadian Airborne Regiment. st. 1296-97
Disbandmenî of Canadian Airborne Regiment. difference of opinion
beîween Minister and Chief of Defence Staff.
government position. qu, 2068-69
Disciplinary practices in Canadian Armed Forces, -overnment
position. qu. 1185-86. (r) 1473
Disposition of Royal Military College at St-Jean. government
position. qu. 503-04, (r) 671-72
Effects of elosure of St-Jean Military College. qu. 136. (r) 308, 668
Future of peacekeeping for-ces in for-mer Yugoslavia. government
position. qu. 1586-87
Govemment îreatmenî of military. st. 1248-49
Initiative of NATO concernîng peacekeeping in Bosnia. participation
by Canadian Armed Forces. government position.
qu. 1741
Inquiry into activities of Canadian Airborne Regiment,. governiment
position. qu. 1185. 1357, (r) 1987
Lengtb of tours of peacekeeping for-ces. request for information,
qu. 1375, (r) 1552
Maritime and aerial surveillance and controi, enhancement of Arctie
capabilities. governimeni policy. qu. 2366
Membership of Honours Policy Committee. tabled. 1652
Peacekeeping costs charged t0 deparimental budget. governmenî
position. qu. 1213, (r) 1342-43
Peacekeeping in Bosnia
Ability of troops to withdraw from Visoko if recaîled. govemment
position. qu. 1839. 1840-41
Participation in UN rapid deployment force. governiment position.
1761
Possîbilîty of increasing size of force. government position.
(r) 2155
Request for parlîamentary debate on increase in size of force.
governmen ition qu. 1743-44. (r) 2091-92
Status of Canadians held hostage. possible discussion of set-up of
UN force ai G-7 summit. povernment position.
qu, 1778-79
Status of troops deîained in Visoko. governmenî position.
qu. 1838-38
Peacekeepîng in former Yugoslavia. wihdrawal of troops.
government policy. qu. 1708
Peacekeeping operations in former Yugoslavia. demîse of Canadian
Airborne Regiment. qu. 1374
Possibility of purchase of nuclear-powered vessels. government
position. qu. 1341
Present structure and facilities of Canadian Forces training system,
tabled. 852
Proportion of non-military items in department budget. governiment
position. qu. 995. (r). 1240
Request for answer. 1213
Proposed eut-backs îo defence expenditures, governimenî position.
qu. 114
Purchase of Upholder Class submarines. cost to governiment.
qu. 1340. (r) 1551
Reduction in Canadian forces capability. government position.
qu. 359-60. (r) 435-36
Reduction of mîliîary personnel. governiment policy. st. 352
Report of Special Commission on the Restructuring, of the Reserves
to the Mînister of National Defence. tabled. 2207
Restructurîng o) Canadian Amnied Foi-ces reserve
Goverinmcni response. 1519
Rcqucst toi ansverc. qu. 150)2
Request foi ici ms o) rel crence o) comiiNiision. (lu, 1374
ReoaI Miliiais Colîcce ai Si Jean. decreasc ni reciuitimcni.
goN erioeni position. (IL. I.357-58

National defence-Con; d
Si-Jean Milîtary College
Effects of proposed closure on maritime students. qu. 216. (r) 309.
668
Effecîs of proposed closure. st. 181. 201.ý 212-13
Proposed closure. si. 214
Search and Rescue Helicopter Replacement Program
Nature of reducmon in capability. requesi for particulars.
qu. 2231-32
Proportion of Canadian content in contc bids. request for
particulars. qu. 2232. (r) 2558
Rationale for ehoice. qu. 2231
Requesi for tabling of statement of requiremenîs and report on
search and rescue capabiliîy requiremenîs. qu. 2363-64
Statement of requiremenîs. requesi for answer qu. 2463. (r) 2559
Search and rescue. replacement of Sea King and Labrador belîcopter
fleets
Govemment position. 1098. (r) 1191
Special Commission on Restructuring of the Reserves, m to ref
rep to Social Affairs. Science and Technolog-y
Commitîce. 2246. adopîed. 2278
State of Sea King helicopters. replacement of fleet. st, 654
Testing of LSVW vehie les. tabled. 852
Training o) Firsi Mechanical Brigade for NATO exercises.
govemnme ni position. qu. 1741-42
National election, Red Book commitment to appoint
commissioner government position. qu. 283

ethies

National Film Board
Audit of presideni's expenses. îabled. 1229
Failure to fulfil commitmenî. înquîry. 302. 681-82
Speaker: Senator
Marshall, Jack. 681-82
National finance
Amouni of defîcît. governmenî position. qu. 302. 303. 323-24
Amouni of deficit for 1993-94. government position. qu. 552
Bank of Canada
Pay increases to officiais. qu. 1984
Salary increases for officiais. government position. qu. 1959
Bank of Canada rate. effeci on inîerest rates. qu. 252. (r) 423-24
Conîrol of debi and deficit. govemment position. qu. 1925
Cutbacks in transfer paymenîs to western provinces. government
position. qu. 401
Debi and deficit management. evaluation of International Monetary
Fund. government position. qu. 2464-65
Defîcit reduction plan, government position. qu. 514-15. 551-52
Downgrading of government's credît rating. government position.
qu. 239, (r), 324-25
Goods and Ser-vices lax
Status of intergovernmenîal negotiations. governimenî position.
qu. 2402
Timing of resîgnation of Deputy Prime Minister qu. 2402
Underîaking of Prime Minîster on deadlinc on replacement.
glovernimeni position. qu. 2403
Increase in bank rate
Deficit reduciion plan. requesi for fiscal update. qu. 689-91
Govemnment position. qu. 630. 666-67. 691-92
lnterest rate,. governmen policy qu, 310
International Monetary Fund. objectives and mnethods o)' deficit
reduction. gos'eriment position. qu. 2443
Job creation. g(overrnieni policy'. qu. 1925-26. (r) 205f)
Meetin- o) lcdcîal and provincial miinisiers. discussion of possible
national debt management plan. govei oment position.
qu. -1463-64
Neessits i io
reecxaincii
s\ sieni loi appri ng Estùiates. si. 148~6-87
OI) a.e securii\. undcotaiiinL o) Piime Mini sici dur ic i' 1e) c-i numl.
"LoN i noiient it
n. qu. 2403

INDEX
National inance-C7onr'd
Reduction in deficit announced hy minister. ramifications for
transfer payments to provinces. government position.
qu. 2440-41
Reduction in post-secondary education financing. qu. 667. (r) 851
Report of Auditor General, long-term management of debt and
deficit. gyovernment position. qu. 2265
Report of Auditor General on national debt, government position.
qu. 211Il

The deficit. budgetary and political risks, effect on foreign
investment. govemment position. qu. 322-23
Total federal government securities. boans and international reserves.
st, 1528

National Finance, Standing Senate Committee
Authority to engage services of personnel. 92. 130
Authority to meet during sittings of the Senate. 585. 665, 688, 2348.
2363, 2399, 2515

Expenditure Management System. authority to, examine and report
upon program and other documents. 1584-85. 1736-37
Membership
See Journals of the Senate
Reports
lst, expenses incurred during 3rd Session. 34th Parliament,
tabled. 92
2nd. Supplementary Estimates (B). 1993-94, 248. adopted. 272-73
See Journals of the Senate
3rd. Federal-Provincial Fiscal Arrangements and Federal
Post-Secondary Education and Health Contrihutions
amendment bibl C-3. without amdt. 248
4th. Supplementary Estimates (A). 1994-95, 600. adopted. 623-25
Atlantic Groundfish Strategy. 624
Bonus for work outside fishery. 624
Corporate Services Program., 625
Employment and Insurance Program. 624
Mobility assistance. 624
Weekly benefit rates, 624
See Journals of the Senate
5th. Budget Implementation, 1994 amendment bill C- 17, 618
6th. Estimates. 1994-95, 627. 655-57, adopted. 735-39
Collège militaire royal at St-Jeani, 735-38
Interest rates. 656
Military bases. closures. 657
Military colleges. consolidation. 657
Post-secondary military education, 656
Reporr of r/e Minisrerial Coinnjttee on the Canadian Military
C<lleges, 656
See Journals of thie Senate
7th. National Library amendmnent bill C-26, without axndt. 654
8th. Auditor General amendment bill C-207, without amdt, 727
9th. Canada Student Finance Assistance bill C-28, without amdict.
743

lOth, Supplementary Estimnates (B) and (C), 1994-95. 1056-57.
adopted. 1075-77
Internal Economy Committee and Treasury Board, 1076. 1077
Supplementary Estimates for the Senate, 1076, 1077
Speakers: Senators
Di Nino, Consiglio, 1077
Doody. C. William, 1075-76.,1077
Lynch-Staunton. John. 1076. 1077
See Journals of the Senate
I bth. Suppbementary Estimates (D) 1994-95. 1450. adopted.

National Finance, Standing Senate Conunittee-Conr 'd
Reports-Contd
lSth. Supplementary report. Budget Implementation. 1995
bill C-76. tabled. 1796
l6th, Government Organization (federal agencies) bill C-65,
without amdt. 1977
l7th, Members of Parliamnent Retiring Allowances amendment
bjill C-85, without amdt. 1978
l8th. Royal Canadian Mint amendiment bill C-82, without amdict.
1978
l9th. Supplementary Estimates (A). 1995-96. 2398-99.
adopted. 2467-68
See Journals of the Senate
2Oth, National Housing amendment bill C-108. 2527
Supplemnentary (B). Estimates 1993-94. ref to com. 184
Supplementary (A). Estimates 1994-95, ref to com. 511
Supplementary (B), Estimates 1994-95, ref to com. 911-12
Supplementary (C). Estimates 1994-95. ref te, com. 932-33
Supplementary (D). Estimates 1994-95. ref te, comn, 1315
National Flag of Canada, thirtieth anniversary of designation as
national emblem. st, 1180. 1201-03
National Forum on Health
Appointment of representative from Metropolitan Toronto.
st. 1449-50
Confusion and delay within government. qu. 515-16. (r) 850-51
Request for information, qu, 848
Request for particulars on expenses. budgets and contracts. qu, 1453.
(r) 1553-54
See also Metropolitan Toronto
National Housing amendment bll C-108. Ir. 2501; 2r. 2513-15;
ref to com. 1515;, rep without amdt. 2527; 3r, 2527.
r.a., chap. 47. 1995. 2546
Mortgage loan insurance. 2513. 2514
Speakers: Senators
Bolduc, Roch, 2514-15
Kelly. William M.. 2515
Oison, H.A.. 2513-14, 2515
National Library ameadment bill C-26. Ir. 511: 2r, 528-30:
ref to com. 530; rep without amdt. 654; 3r, 654:
r.a., chap. 20. 1994. 664
Book deposit regulations, 528
Federal government publications. 529
Fine for non-compliance, 530
Legal deposit. 528, 529. 530
National Archives. 529
Penalty. 528
Quebec publishers. 529
Speakers: Senators
De Bané. Pierre. 528-29. 530
Doyle, Richard J.. 529-30
Stewart, John B., 530
National Missing Children's Day, st. 1675
National Round Table on the Environment and the Economy,
nonirepresentation of New Brunswick. qu. 605
Request for answer. 671

1476-77

See Joumnals of the Senate
l2th. Borrowing Authority. 1995-96 bill C-73. 1487
I 3th. Lobbyists Registration amendment bill C-43. without amdt.
1727
l4th. Budget Implementation. 1995 bill C-76. without amndt. 1773

National securitv
ProposaI to strike special commitee
Clarification of govemmient position. qu. 881-82
Governrnent position. qu. 875-77. 903-04. (r) 10142
Request for answer. qu. 1132-33

National Sports of Canada bill C-212. I r. 397: 2r. 425-27. 441 : ref to
Committee of the Whole next sitti ng. 441; considered in
Comnmittee of the Whole, Hon. EarI A. Hastin-s in the
Chair. 476: rep without amdt. 476; 3r. 476: r.a.. chap. 16.
1994.478
Hockey. national winter sport. 425
Lacrosse. national summer sport. 425
Speaker: SenatorGraham, B. Alasdair. 425-27, 441
National unity
Aftermnath ot Quehec referendum
Comments of John Nunziata. M.P., st. 2174
Explanation ot comments in press. st. 2173
Neeessity of reviewing Pepin-Robarts report. st. 2228
Constitutional amendments. request for tabling of documents
prepared by New Brunswick officiais. qu. 2442
Indian Affairs. document on posi referendum policy purportedly
prepared by official. govemnment position. qu. 2382
Presence of' aboriginal peoples at Quebec Round. governiment
position. qu. 2382-83
Proposed establishment of committee on regional aspirations,
2150-52
Quebec reterendiîm
Coverage of events by CBC French network. st, 2414-15
Possible reduction in elderly benefits. government position.
qu. 2232
Relevance of CBC programming for francophones outside
Quebec. st, 2435
Response of somne Quebecers to communications from
schoolchildren in other parts of the country. st. 2415
Quebec situation following referendum. governiment policy.
qu. 2167
Refiections on referendums and promises. st, 2 166
Resuli of Quebec Referendum. st, 2146-47, 2148-49,.2164-65
National unity, resuits of Quebec referendum, inquiiy. 2166, 2353-56
AII-party commîttee of senators. 2354
Meech Lake Accord. 2355
Speaker: Senator
Oliver. Donald H.. 2166, 2353-56
National University Hockey Championships
Congratulations to University of Lethbridge Pronghorns Hockey
Team, st,.213-14
Natural disasters in Alberta, st. 1724
Natural resources, new federal -provincial silviculture agreement.
governiment position. qu. 1802-03, (r) 2078
Neiman, Hon..joan (retired Sept. 9/95)
Appointment of special committee on euthanasia and assisted
suicide. m. 132: adopted. 157-58
Business ot the Senate. 1075
Canada Remembers. fiftieth anniversary of D-Day. st. 580-81
Energy. the Environment and Natural Resources Commitcee
Jobs and the environment. authority to conduct study. 390
National Protected Areas Straîegy, authority to conduct study. 388
Euthanasia and Assisted Suicide Special Committee
Auîhorîty to extend date of final report. 1282. 1585, 1678-79
Authority to meet during sittings of the Senate. 484. 688. 869.
1081. 1131. 1223. 1445. 1446. 1649. 1678
Reports
1Isi.budget. 547. adopted, 587
.Sec Journals of the Scn:îîe
2nd. power to bol d occasi ona I meetings ini (ameoî .
adopted. 744. 745
3Wd. extension oftinal irepoirt date. 984. :idopicd. ais amrendcd.
lOOl. I(X)2

Neiman, Hon.,joan-Coi'd
Euthanasia and Assisted Suicide Special Comm iteeCooî 'il
Final tabled. 1704-05. 1720. adopted. 1997-2000
Healîh. establishment of' special commitîee on euthanasia.
inquiiy. 25-26. 124-26
British House of Lords Report on Medîcal Ethics. 125
British Voluntary Euthanasia Society. 125
"Death with dignity"'. 125
Dutch Remmelink Commission. 125
Gennany. 124, 125
Physician-assisted suicide. 125
Relation between ethics and policy. 126
Role of health care givers. 126
United States. 124. 125
Health. extension ot Veicrans Independence Program to senior
citizens. înquiry. 198
Miscellaneous Statute Law Amendment. 1994 bill C-40. 704-OS
Powers of' parliamentary committees. paper referred to Legal and
Consîîtuîîonîl Aftairs Comm îttee. Il 30
Tributes on retirement. 2(038-44
New Brunswick
Liberal victory in provincial election. st. 2090
Reopening of Saint John's Imperial Theatre. st. 542-43
Share of patronage appointmnents. governmenî position. qu. 357
Twenîy-fiftb anniversary of OfficiaI Languages Act. st, 320
Newfoundiand
Canadian Forces Reserves. tabled. 3 10
Effeets of federal infrastructure program. îabled. 239
New senators, 838-39
Felicitations. 843-44
Introduction. 869-70. 991-92. 1447-48. 2058-60. 2550
Nigeria
Execution of' Ken Saro-Wîwa and nîne other Ogoni actîvisîs.
st. 2313
Nolin Hon. Pierre Claude
Altemnative Fuels for Interni Combustion Engines bill S-7, 1115
Govei-ment*s fleet of sehicles. Il 15
Budget 1995
Statement of Minîster of Finance. inquiry. 1266
Budget. proposed closure of Royal Military College at St-Jean.
resumrption of' discussions. governiment position.
qu. 1111
Budget. Statement of Minister of Finance. înquiry. 560-64
Child poverty. 563
Child welfare. 561
International Year of the Family. 560
National debt. 562, 563
United Nations. 561
Youth unemployment. 561. 562
Canadian Film Developinent Corporation amendment bill C-31.
661. 662
Tax credits. 661
Canadian Herîtage. catalogue of national sports events. failure to
publish in French, governiment position. qu. 1841-42,
(r) 2080
Canadian International Development Agency. filling of vacant
positions without competition. governimenî position.
qu. 2269
Canadian NATO Parliamientary Association. report of 1995 sprîng
session tabled. 1890
Coastal Fisbei ies Protection aiendmnent bill C-29. considered in
Coimniiitîec o) ibe Wbole. 473
Conru niat ions
Gianiing of public ielauions conti aci loi G-7 SonîIii.
conti asentioi
of
Ti castirs
Board
i cgulation.
1927. 1
928,(r)2081-82
205 Ciflilieni position. quI.

INDEX
Nolin Hon. Pierre Claude-Coni'd
Official languages. report of commissioner. quality of debate.
Communications-Cont'd
government position. qu. 334, 335
Satellite broadcasting, consultation with CRTC and with both
Pearson Airport Agreements. Special Senate Committee, request for
Houses of Parliament. government position. qu. 1803
particulars of expenditures on consultants, qu, 2504
Constitutional amendments bill C-1 10, 2540-41
Pearson International Airport Agreements bill C-22, 698-99
Aboriginal peoples, 2541
Nixon Report, 698
Provincial representation, 2541
Public Works
Economy. market factors affecting foreign investors, government
Cancellation of building contract in Dorval, Quebec. substitution
position. qu, 1225
of rental agreement, request for particulars. qu, 1586,
Elections Canada
(r) 1717-18
Electoral boundaries readjustment process, extension of deadline,
Decision of Minister to build new federal building in Sault Ste.
request for particulars, qu. 2251
Marie. request for details of contract, qu, 1186-87,
Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Act, introduction of
(r) 1535-36
bill, effect on commissions in each province.
suspension
Details of costs involved in cancellation of project, qu. 1215.
qu, 321
(r) 1536
Electoral Boundaries Readjustment, 1995 bill C-69, 1733; point of
Reconstruction of East Block Tunnel, status of project, qu, 1215,
order. 1898. 1899-900. 1903; m to instruct com to table
(r) 1536
final report. 2189
Quebec
Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Suspension bill, future of
Distinct society resolution, comments by the chair of the Standing
bill C-18, qu, 516, 517
Committee on Canadian Heritage. government position,
Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Suspension, 1994 bill C- 18,
qu, 2540
325-26
Motion for recognition as distinct society. 2454, 2455. 2456,
Energy. the Environment and Natural Resources Committee report
2474-76
i lth, Alternative Fuels for Internal Combustion Engines bill S-7.
Parallel statements, 2454
1542
Quebec's powers. 2456
Bronson report. 1542
Quebec nationalism, inherent contradictions. inquiry. 611, 612
Government fleet of vehicles, 1542
Transport
Foreign affairs, negotiations towards inclusion of Chile in NAFTA,
Federal-Provincial Strategic Highway Improvement Program,
request for progress report, qu. 1960, (r) 2114
fulfilment of Red Book promises, government position.
Goods and Services Tax, application on reading materials. qu, 849
qu, 1661
Human resources, discussions with provinces on manpower training,
Pearson Airport Agreements
government position. qu. 1574, (r) 2046
Discrepancies in Nixon Report, government position, qu, 1520
Human Resources Development
Possible revision of report of Robert Nixon. government
Child care. federal offer of funding, discussions with provincial
position, qu, 1502
finance ministers, government position, qu, 2503
Redevelopment of Terminals 1 and 2. request for information.
qu. 1471. (r) 1537-38
Installation of telephone communications network, qu, 422,
Request for copy of stamped receipt notation on Mr. Nixon's
(r) 850
report, qu, 1502
Human rights, campaign promise of annual reports, government
Pearson International Airport
position, qu, 2506
Cancellation of leases preventing redevelopment of Terminals 1
Indian affairs
and 2, government position, qu, 1490
Cigarette smuggling on native reserves, qu, 47
Delay in redevelopment of Terminals 1 and 2, qu, 1301. 1302.
Contraband alcohol on reserves. qu, 96, 97
(r) 1361-62
Infrastructure program, effect on construction industry, government
Government position. qu. 1451, 1452, (r) 1537
position, qu, 2234
Request for answers, qu, 1531
Justice, sale of Airbus Aircraft to Air Canada, alleged conspiracy to
Request for particulars on revenue from subleases. qu. 1490
defraud federal government
Departmental letter to Swiss authorities, source of leak to media,
qu, 2318
RCMP investigative procedures, request for particulars, qu, 2249, Nordic Council's Parliamentary Conference on the Arctic, report of
official parliamentary delegation tabled, 92
2250
National defence
Closure of Royal Military College at St-Jean, qu, 620-21, (r) 670
Consequences of cuts to transfer payments to provinces, North American Free Trade Agreement
Extension of agreement to include Chile, government position,
government position, qu, 1254
qu, 1708-09, (r) 2114
Peacekeeping in Bosnia, possibility of increasing size of force,
Inclusion of Chile, influence on existing agreement, government
govemment position, qu. 1742
position, qu. 1705-06, (r) 2114
Search and Rescue Helicopter Replacement Program, proportion
of Canadian content in contract bids, request for
particulars, qu, 2232, (r) 2558
North American Free Trade Agreement, transition period for
National finance
application of rules, inquiry. 512
Amount of deficit. government position, qu, 323, 324
International Monetary Fund, objectives and methods of deficit
reduction, government position. qu. 2443
North Atlantic Assembly, sixth report of Canadian NATO
National Unity. resuit of Quebec Referendum, st. 2148
Parliamentary Association tabled. 1649
North American Free Trade Agreement. extension of agreement to
include Chile. government position. qu. 1708. 1709.
(r) 2114
North Atlantic Treaty Organization. respect of human rights as North Atlantic Treaty Organization, respect of human rights as
condition of continuing membership. government
condition of continuing membership. government
position. qu. 1692-93, (r) 1992
position. qu. 1692. 1693. (r) 1992

Nolin Hon. Pierre Claude-Cont'd

Nova Scotia
Congratulations to Dr. John Hamm on clection as leader of
provincial Progressive Conservative Party, st. 2149-50.
2164
Effect of budget on Cornwallis Peacekeeping Training Centre.
government position. 133-34
Industrial marine products. relocation of plant trom North Sydney to
Amherst, possible delay in implementation of decision.
government position. qu. 2349
Necessity of peacekeeping training. govemnment position. qu. 113
Proposed peacekeeping training centre. government position.
qu. 620. (r) 986
Status of peacekeeping training centre at CFB Cornwallis.
eovernment position. qu. 112-13
Success of private shortline railway operations. st. 352
Nova Scotia, research reports on black community, inquiry. 901.
959-61
Black Role Model Program. 959, 960
Culture and history. 959
Economie independence. 959
Education. 959
James Robinson Johnston Chair in Black Canadian Studies. 960.
961
Negative media reports. 960
Racial discrimination. 960
Racism. 961
Visible minorities. 960
Speaker: Senator
Oliver. Donald H.. 959-61
OECD international survey on adult literary, inquîry. 2443
Office of Prime Minister, status of car transportation. tabled. 3 10
Officiai languages
Access of francophones to Internet network. qu. 1651-52
Annual Reports of Commissioner tabled. 301. 784. 1546
Ret to com., 301, 328
Dissociation from a stand by a member of parliament. st. 1674-75
Proliferation of' French tclevîsionn stations in Ontaiio. comrnents in
media. st, 2459
Report of Commissioner. recommendation to discontinue bilingual
bonus, govemment position. qu. 304-05
Oficiai Languages Act, necessity of evaluating the law. inquiry. 1679.
1755-56
Speaker: Senator
Gauthier. Jean-Robert, 1755-56
Officiai Languages, Standing Joint Committee
Appointment of'Senators. 161
Authority to meet during adjournimenîs of the Senate. 202:
m withdrawn. 317
Authority to meet during sitting of the Senate. 354
Authority to meet during sittings and adjournments of the Senate.
421
Estimates. 1994-95
Privy Council Vote 20 ref. 160
Supplementary (D). vote 25d ref. 1315
Estimates. 1995-96. Privy Council Vote 25 ref. 1315
Membership. message fr-on Commnons. 48-49
Report,.I st. Acciplîshiiint duiiing 6cm ing's. 727-28
2nd. Estiiatcs 1995-96. Voýte 25. 17 12-I13. :idoptcd. 1753
Oficiai report, 1164

Old Age Security, Canada Pension Plan, Children's Special
Allowances, Unemployment Insurance amendment
bill C-54. Ir. 1890: 2r. 1934-38: ref to comn. 1938:
rep wîthout amdt but with recomimendations. 1981:
3r. 2019; r.a.. chap. 33. 1995. 2057
Access to client information. 1936
Appeal process. 1935
Cancelling benefits. 1935
Client services. 1934
Debt forgiveness. 1936
Guaranteed income supplements. 1935
Information sharing. 1936
Retirement income. 1935
Retroactive benefits. 1935. 1936
Seniors' benefits. 1936
Spouses' allowance. 1935. 1936
Temporaîy benefits, 1935
Voice mail. 1936
Women. 1936. 1937
Speakers: Senators
Bonnell. M. Lomne. 1934-35
Lavoie-Roux. Therèse, 1935-37
Prud'homme. Marcel, 1937-38
Oliver. Hon. Donald H.
Oliver, Hon. Donald H.
Address in reply to Speech from the Throne. 105-07
Atlantic Canada Opportunities Agency. Auditor General's report.
efficacy of infrastructure job statistics. government
position. qu. 2404-05
Banking. Trade and Commerce Committee report
26th. Excise Tax. Income Tax amendment bill C-103, with
one amdt. 2449; m in amdt. 2449
Black, Histoiy Month. st. 1179-80
Budget. 1995
Precedence of budget statement of Finance Minîster ovei
Red Book,. government position. qu. 1250
Reduction to international assistance en velope, grîvel nmcnt
position. qu. 1250-5I
Budget. Statement by Mînister of Finance. inquiry. 592-94
Atlantic Canada. 592. 593. 594
Buffalo and Fort Erie Public Bridge Company amendment bill C- 81
1719
Borrowing lîmit. 1719
Gateways Project. 1719
Peace Bridge. 1719
Business of the Senate. proposaI to establish committee to
investigate orders of reference. governiment position.
qu. 955
Canada-Japan Inter-Parliamentary Group. Report of Second Annual
Meeting of the Asia Pacific Parliamentary Forum.
tabled. 78
Canadian Broadcasting Corporation. telîcîtations on the appoîntment
of Hon. Perrin Beatty. P.C.. as President and CEO.
St. 1499
Canadian Race Relations Foundation, particulars on establishment,
tabled. 1695
Code ot Conduct. Special Joint Committee
Motion to appoint. 1954-55
Reports
1st, extension of report deadline. 2067, adopted. 2115
2nd. name of Committee in French changed. 2416.
adopted 2483
Communications. Radio Canada International. tuture prospects l'or
continuance. governmient position. qu. 2463
Employient. tabled. 2385
Fireais bill. present:ition of petitions. 1741
Gos ernot Genet al's Pet lori inn Airts Awards. si, 909- I)
Humian rinhs. st. 1676
Es.tablitshiinent of'Scnatîc omm
iiittee on afInntm.ti s e action. ,t. 1330
Request loi- response te 4tenint qu. 2208

INDEX
Oliver, Hon. Donald H.-Cont'd
Human rights-Coni'd
Establishment of standing committee. inquiry, 564-66
Dignity of individual, 565
Human rights function, 565
Linguistic minorities, 565
Mandate of committee, 565
Multiculturalism, 565
Protection of minorities, 565
Review of Senate committee system. 566
Termination of discussions with multicultural organizations on
redress for past injustices, tabled, 1695
Income Tax amendment bill C-59, 1287-89
Atlantic Canada, 1288
Capital gains, 1288
Charitable donations, 1288
Home Buyer's Plan. 1288
Special investment tax credit, 1288
Tabling a tax bill, 1288
Internal Economy, Budgets and Administration Committee report
4th. Canada's Foreign Policy, Special Joint Committee budget,
477

Legal and Constitutional Affairs Committee report
16th, Firearms bill C-68, with 14 amdts, 2281-82
Aboriginal peoples, 2282
Delayed implementation. 2282
Museums, 2282
Registration. 2281
Smuggling, 2281
Multiculturalism. termination of redress discussions with
ethnocultural organizations. st. 1235
National Unity, results of Quebec referendum. inquiry, 2166.
2353-56

All-party committee of senators, 2354
Meech Lake Accord, 2355
Nova Scotia, research reports on black community. inquiry, 901,
959-61
Black Role Model Program. 959, 960
Culture and history. 959
Economic independence, 959
Education, 959
James Robinson Johnston Chair in Black Canadian Studies, 960,
961
Negative media reports. 960
Racial discrimination. 960
Racism. 961
Visible minorities, 960
Order-in-Council appointments to government boards and tribunals,
tabled. 852
Pearson International Airport Agreements bill C-22, 819-21
Constitutionality, 821
War Damage Act. 1965 (Great Britain). 820
Proposals for Social Reform. inquiry. 873, 906-08
Aboriginal peoples, 908
Commission on Systemic Racism in the Ontario Criminal Justice
System, 906
Crime Prevention Council, 907
Disabled, 908
Discrimination within criminal justice system, 906
Racism in Ontario justice system. 907
Royal Commission on the Donald Marshall Jr. prosecution in
Nova Scotia, 906, 907
Treatment of blacks in Ontario prisons. 906
Visible minorities, 908
Women. 908
Request for answers. 1685
Senate. amendments to Bill C-22. refusal by Minister to appear
before Senate Committee. qu, 1300
Small Business Loans amendment bill C-99. 2512-13. 2538-39
Administration fee, 2513
Claim processing fee. 2513

Oliver, Hon. Donald H.-Cont'd
Small Business Loans amendment-Cont'd

Level of guarantees and program fees. 2513
Maximum loan guarantee, 2513
Security and personal guarantees. 2513
South Africa, first democratic. 570 elections. inquiry. 421, 566-70
Apartheid, 566. 568. 569
Child labour. 567
Future of South Africa, 569
Health system. 567
Racism. 569
Unemployment. 567
United Nations Observer Mission in South Africa, mandate, 567
Transport
Federal-Provincial Strategic Highway Improvement Program.
Nova Scotia. return of funds to designated highway
project, govemment position, qu. 1662
Measure to terminate railway strike. considered in Committee of
the Whole, 1388, 1393, 1404
Pearson Airport Agreements, refusai of minister to appear before
Senate committee. government position. qu, 1519
Pearson International Airport. m to strike Special Committee to
inquire into privatization contracts, 1575-78, 1579-80
Pearson International Airport redevelopment, alleged involvement
of Prime Minister, qu, 1450
Radio Canada International, invitation to Minister of Foreign
Affairs and International Trade to respond to Senate
committee report, 1227
Transport and communications, directions to Canadian
Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission
on direct-to-home satellite distribution. comments of
Minister of Canadian Heritage, government position,
qu. 1692
Transport and Communications Committee
Authority to continue special study on report of National
Transportation Act Review Commission, 211. 234, 872,
887-88

Authority to extend date for final report, 1689, adopted, 1710
Authority to meet during sittings of the Senate. 527, 570, 866,
1204, 1702. 2230, 2437. 2462
Authority to permit electronic coverage of meeting, adopted,
1057, 1204
Authority to study telecommunications, 1488, 1515-17
Cultural sovereignty 1517
Industry convergence, 1515
Information highway, 1515
in
position
competitive
international
Canada's
telecommunications, m to authorize committee to
extend date for final report on special study, 2110,
adopted. 2129
Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission,
proposed orders on directives on Direct-to-Home
Satellite Distribution Undertakings, authority for
electronic coverage of committee proceedings, 1615,
adopted, 1647, 1648
Marine safety, study on mandate and staffing of lightstations.
question for chairman, 954, 955
Telecommunications, authority to permit electronic coverage of
proceedings, adopted, 1740
Reports
Ist. expenses incurred during 3rd Session, 34th Parliament.
tabled. 91
2nd, Competition in Transportation, Policy and Legislation in
Review, 583. adopted, 607
See Journals of the Senate
3rd. Radio Canada International. 583, adopted. 607
See Journals of the Senate
4th. Marine safety. 583-84. adopted. 607
See Journals of the Senate
5th. Radio Canada International. study of mandate and funding.
686, 779-8 1. 782

Oliver, Hon. Donald H.-Coiit'ci
Transport and Communications Comimittee E'oot'dl
Funding cutbacks. 780
History. 780
Mandate. 780
Purposes. 780
6th. Marine safety. study on mandate and statfing of
1lightstations. tabled. 95 1
7th. Marine Transportation Security bill C-38
9th, Budget. examiunation on Canada's international competitive
position in telecomrmunications. 1837. adopted. 2000
See Journals of the Senate
IOth. Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunîcations
Commission. proposed orders on directions on
direct-to-home
satellite
distribution
and
on
pay-per-view televîsion programming. 1837. adopted.
2001-02
11lth. CN Commercialization bill C-89 without amdt. 1922

Oison, P.C., Hon. H.A.
Address in reply to Speech from the Throne. 52-55
Agriculture
Grain handling capacity oh Purts oif Vancouver and Prince Rupert.
inquiry. 377. 409-11. 540-41
Abnormal weather conditions. 410
Advisory Committee to the Canadian Wheat Board. 409
Canada Grains Council. 409
Canadian export of grain to United States. 4 10
Volume of grain "un loads". 4 10
West Coast longshoreinen's strike. 410
Improvement in international grain market, request for analysis of
situation. qu. 1223. (1) 361
Appropriation No. 3. 1995-96 bill C- 116, 2469-70
Canada Eldor Inc.. 2469
Departments operating' budgets. 2469
Western Grain Transition Payments Act, 2469
Bouchard. Hon. Lucien, media handlîng of news of illness of the
Honourable Leader of the Opposition. st. 1055
Budget 1995. Statement of Minîster of Finance. inquiry. 1261. 1263.
1264-66. 1267. 1268-69
Farm subsidies. 1264
Federal debt. 1263. 1264
National Finance Committee. role of. 1268. 1269
WGTA. 1264
Budget Implementation. 1994 amendiment bill C- 17. 530-31. 532-33,
631-32
Canadian Broadcasting Corporation. 533
Deficit reduction. 531
Economnic growth. 530. 531
Established Programs Financing. 532
Freight subsidies, 532
Job creation. 530, 53 1
Labour adjustment. 531
Reduction in transfers. 532
Social security reform. 532
Unemployment insurance. 531
Wage freeze. 532
Budget Implementation. 1995 bill C-76. 1806. 1807
Canada Health and Social Transfeî. 1809
Labour relations. 1808. 1809
Prairie Farm Rehabilitation Association. 1807
Workforce Adjustment Directive. 1808
Budget. statement of Minîsteî oh Finance. inquiiy. 244. 245-46
Debt service chairges. 245
Business of the Senate
Coonfiguration of (îidei tPapcr. 24135
lnquii ies nos. 17 and 18 reinstated not\s ithstindinL, Rule 28 3).
912
lnquii-ies nos. 301
and 31 icinstated notssithstanding Rule 280).
114

Oison, P.C., Hon. H.A.-C<oi'd
Canada-United States Inter-Parliamentary Group. thirty-sixth annual
meeting held in Huntsville. Ontario. report of Canadian
Delegation tabled. 1801. înquiîy. 1802. 2051-52
Canadian Association of Lutheran Congregations incorporation
bill S-5. 273. 403-04. 588. 606. 607
Canadian Association of Lutheran Congreg-ations. presentation of
petition. 250
Furctions ot org-anization. 403
Lutheranism in Canada. 403
Canadian Wheat Board amendment bill C-50. 935-36
Check-ofls. 935. 936
Field performance, 935
Levies. 936
Plant breeding and research. 936
Specific qualîties. 935
Constîtutional Amendments bill C- 110. Special Senate Committee
report. 2580. 2581, 2582
Department of Agriculture amendiment bill C-49, 904-05. 937
Annual report. 905
Change in name. 90ý4
Clarification of mandate, 905
New responsibilities. 904
Power to designate inspectors. 905
Redress procedure. 905
Diefenbaker. the late Rt. Hon. John George. one hundredth
anniversary of bîrthday. st. 2088-89
Economny. reduction in tederal deficit. st. 12 10
Electoral Boundaries Readjustment. 1995 bill C-69. point of order.
1897-98
Excise Tax. Customs, Tobacco Sales to Young- Persons amendmenî
bill C- 11.657-58, 673
Civil provisions. entorcement. 658
Clearing stocks of kiddy packs. 673
Enfèrcement. 658
Fines for- violations. 658
-~Kiddy packs", 658
Minimum age. 658
Seîzed goods. 658
Smugghîing. 658
Stampîng of indîvidual cigarettes. 658
Excise Tax.' Excise amendment bill C-90. 2138
Everett. Hon. Douglas D.. resignation from Senate. announcement
and tributes. 21
Farm Improvement and Marketing Cooperatives Loans amendment
bill C-75. 1718
Aggregate principal amount. 1718
Annual boan registrations, 1718
Credit. 1718
lnvestinent. 1718
Firearms le.eîslation. comments made in House of Commons. 1738
General Agreement on Tarîlfs and Trade. application of rules to
agicultural marketing structures. inquîry. 5 12
Human riaghts
Canada s historic leadership role. 544
China. tifth annîversaîy of Tiananmen Square massacre. 544
Income Tax Conventions bill S-2. 98-99
Capital gains. 99
Categories ohrules. 98
Divîdends. 99
Double taxation relief. 99
lnterest. 99
International ",juridical'* double taxation. 98
Non-discrimniination. 99
Pensions. 99
Protocol s,\ Nethet lands. 98. 99
îîh
Rieghî to ta>.. 98
lto\ .thics. 99)
T,îs tîcaties,. 98. 99

INDEX
Olson, P.C., Hon. H.A.-Cont'd
Infrastructure program, formula resolved among levels of
government, qu, 399
International trade, 1994 export statistics, 1222
Joint Parliamentary Delegation to Brazil
Official visit, inquiry, 1650, 2050-51
Report tabled, 1649
Legal and Constitutional Affairs Committee
Motion instructing com to table final rep re C-69, point of order.
2426-27
Notice of motion to instruct com to table final rep re C-69, point
of order, Speaker's ruling. 2393-94
Maintenance of Railway Operations, 1995 bill C-77, 1434
Railroading requirements for Canada, 1434
Muir, Hon. Robert, tributes on retirement, 891
National Finance, Standing Senate Committee, Expenditure
Management System, authority to examine and report
upon programs and other documents. 1584-85, 1736-37
National finance, total federal government securities, loans and
international reserves, st, 1528
National Housing amendment bill C-108, 2513-14, 2515
Mortgage loan insurance, 2513-14
Neiman, Hon. Joan, tribute on retirement, 2041
North American Free Trade Agreement, transition period for
application of rules, inquiry, 512
Pearson Airport Agreements, Special Senate Committee report, 2628
Point of order, contravention of Rule 26, 240
Precincts of Parliament, proposed renovations to East and Centre
Blocks, government position, 307, 308
Quebec, m for recognition as distinct society, 2454, 2456, 2457,
2458

Alberta veto. 2457
Question of privilege, 1522, 1523
Transport, measure to terminate railway strike. considered in
Committee of the Whole, 1385, 1418, 1419
West Coast Ports Operations, 1994 bill C-10, considered in
Committee of the Whole. 72
West Coast Ports Operations, 1995 bill C-74, 1319, 1320-21;
considered in Committee of the Whole, 1327-28
Foremen, 1320
World Trade Organization Agreement Implementation bill C-57,
1072-73, 1074
Agriculture, 1072, 1073
Dairy industry, 1072
Eggs, 1072
International grain market, 1073
Skim milk powder, 1073
Olympic Winter Games
Congratulations to Myriam Bédard, st, 131
Ontario
Congratulations to Conservative government on taking office,
st. 1956
Progressive Conservative victory in provincial election, st, 1797
Ontario Court General Division
Motion to strike Special Committee to examine and report upon the
conduct and behaviour of certain officers and justices,
1164-65, 1198-99, withdrawn, 1281
Motion to strike Special Committee to examine and report upon the
conduct and behaviour of certain officers and justices,
1281, point of order, 1625-29. 1640-44; Speaker's
ruling, 2002-05; m debated. 2168-70; point of order.
2170-72; m debated, 2544-45
Speakers: Senators
Cools. Anne C., 1625. 1627-28, 1641-43, 2169-70. 2171. 2172.
2544-45

Grimard. Normand. 1643-44
Lynch-Staunton. John. 1628

Ontario Court General Division-Cont'd
Motion to strike Special Committee-Cont'd
Murray, Lowell, 1641
Robertson, Brenda M., 1626-27
Stewart, John B., 1628
Opening of Parliament
Speech from the Throne by His Excellency the Governor General,
3-5

Order of Canada, status of Advisory Council, tabled, 310
Order-in-Council appointments to government boards and
tribunals, tabled, 852

Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development,
appointment of Donald Johnston as Secretary-General,
length of term, government position, qu, 996, (r) 1089
Ottenheimer, Hon. Gerald R.
Bosnia
Ban on sale of armaments, government policy, qu, 333
Coherence of NATO strategy, government policy, qu, 111-12,
(r) 287
Conditions for continuation of peacekeeping mission, visit of UN
Secretary-General, government position, qu, 1040,
(r) 1341-42
NATO air strikes on un-designated safe areas, government policy,
qu, 333
United Nations, request for NATO air strikes, government
position, qu, 303
Business of the Senate, 78
Canada-China relations, representations on human rights abuses,
government position, qu, 238, (r) 455
Carter, the late Hon. Chesley William, tribute. 77
Clerk of the Senate
Appointment of Gordon Barnhart, Esq., as honorary officer of the
Senate, felicitations, 180-81
Appointment of Paul C. Bélisle, Esq., as Clerk of the Senate,
felicitations, 180-81
Firearms bill C-68, 1820
Fisheries and oceans, extension of jurisdiction beyond 200-mile
limit, government policy, qu, 94-95, (r) 137
Foreign affairs, human rights issues, government policy, qu, 285
LeBlanc, P.C., Hon. Roméo, tributes on appointment as Governor
General, 966-67
Legal and Constitutional Affairs Committee, notice of motion to
instruct com ta table final rep re C-69. point of order,
Speaker's ruling. 2394
Marshall, Hon. Jack, tributes on retirement, 980-81
National defence, future of peacekeeping forces in former
Yugoslavia, government position, qu, 1586, 1587
National Defence Policy, proposed Special Joint Committee
Appointment, 154
Official Languages, Standing Joint Committee report
lst, Accomplishment during hearings, 727-28
Points of order
Contravention of Rule 26, 240
Precincts of Parliament, proposed renovations to East and Centre
Blocks, government position. 307, 308
Reviewing Canada's Foreign Policy, ruling by Speaker of the House
of Commons, point of order, 1015
United Nations
Peacekeeping in Bosnia, participation in rapid reaction force,
government position, qu. 1802
Possible changes to application of veto, government policy,
qu, 1802. (r) 2049
Ouellet, P.C., M.P., Hon. André, Minister of Foreign Affairs
Coastal Fisheries Protection amendment bill C-29, considered in
Committee of the Whole. 463

Pages Exchange Program with House of Commons, 1703, 2241.
2361. 2395, 2459
Parent, Hon. Gilbert
Appoiniment to office of Speaker of the House of Commons. 3
Parks Canada
Location and composition of meetings. tabled. 1191
Meetings held by officiais in Wolfviile and Digby, Nova Scotia.
tabled. 1652
Restored Fortress at Louisbourg, Nova Scotia. festivities 1995,
qu. 2008-09
User fees, government position, qu. 875. 934, (r) 974-75, (r) 1168-69
Parliament
Program of legisiation. goveroment policy. qu. 282-83
Parliamentary assemblies of French-speaking countries, report of
conference of Speakers. Paris. France. 2416
Parliamentary Delegation to Poland, report of delegation presented.
856
Parliamentary Spouses Association, annuai children's book show.
st. 870
Peace in Europe, inquiry. 1574
Speaker: Senator
Haidasz. Stanley, 1574
Pearson Airport Agreements
Speciai Senate Committee. request for particulars of expenditures on
consultants. qu. 2504
See al.so Transport
Pearson Airport Agreements, Special Senate Commnittee
Authority to meet during sitting of the Senate. 1958
Change in date of first public heariiig, 1888
Reports
1ist,Budget. 1739. 17707 adopted. on div, 1784-86
71,
Point of order. 1771-72
2nd. Address to Hîs Exceilency the Governor Generai requesting
documents. 2109, 2143-45, 2159-60; mn in amdî.
2160-61, 2168. 2190-93
3rd. reserving right to hold further hearings and adjourning with
no appointed date, 2486. 2584-99, 2621-28
Speakers: Senators
Bryden. John G., 2622, 2623. 2624, 2625-28
Kîrby, Michael. 2591-93, 2594-99
Lynch-Staunton, John. 2593. 2594. 2621-22. 2623. 2624-25
MacDonald. Finlay, 2486, 2584-86. 25 87-91I
Oison. H.A.. 2628
Prud'homme. Marcel. 2599
Pearson Airport Agreements, Special Senate Comimittee, 2098-99
Pearson, Hon. Landon (introduced in the Senate Oct.25/94). 869-70
Budget 1995. Statement of Minister of Finance, inquiry, 1505-07
Canada Heaith and Social Transfer. 1506
Child care. 1506
Child Deveiopment Initiative funding. 1507
Child poverty. 1506
Impact on children. 1505-07
UN Convention on the Rig-hts of the Child. 1506. 1507

Pearson, Hon. Landon-Conr 'd
Corrections and Conditionai Release. Crîminai Code. Criminal
Records. Prisons and Reformatories. Transfer of
Offenders amendment bill C-45, 2100-03. 2120, 2121,
2467
Chîld sexual offenders. 2 101
Detention. 2101, 2102
Inmates' earnings towards room and board, 2102
National Parole Board, credibility and accountabiiity 2102
Residency requirements for hîg-h-risk offenders. 2102
Sentences for multiple terms, 2102
"Serious harm". 2101
Treatment programs for sexual offenders. 2101
Felicitations on receivîng honorary degree. 1673-74
Legai and Constîtutional Affairs Committee report
l6th. Firearms bill C-68, with 14 amdts. 2303-05
Aboriginal peoples. 2304. 2305
Lobbyists Registration amendment bill C-43, 1637-39
Code of Conduct, 1639
Conflict of Interest Code. 1637
Ethîcs Counselior. 1637. 1639
Hoitmann report, 1637. 1638
Levels of lobbyists. 1638
Tier I and lier 11,1638
Not-for-profit organizations. 1638
Political process. 1637
Procurement process. 1637
Registration, 1639
Trust. 1637
Types of lobhyists. 1638
Consultant. 1638
Corporate-in-house. 1638
Organization in-house, 1638, 1639
National Child Day. st. 929-30, 2243
National Missing Children's Day, st. 1675
Privilege, 1492
Quehec. mnto recognize as distinct society. 2531-32
Reviewing Canada's Foreign Policy. response of government to
Rcport of Spccial Joint Comiittcc. 1464-66
Children's issues. 1464-66
Ritchie. the late Charles Stewart Aimon. trihute. 1725
United Nations. Fourth World Conference on Women. Beijing,
China. inquiry, 2110. 2236-38. 2239
Canadian delegation. 2238. 2239
Child marriage, 2237
Children's righits, 2238
Education programs. 2237
Female gaenital mutilation. 2237
Girl child. 2237, 2238
Inheritance, 2237
Parental responsihilities. 2237
"Parlîamentary observers". 2238, 2239
Vatican delegation. role of. 2239
Worid AIDS Day. effect of pandemic on youth. st. 2397-98
Young Offenders. Criminal Code amendment bill C-37. 1859-61
Jasmin report. 1860
Prevention of cniminal behavîour 1860
Primary prevention. 1860
Rehabilîtation. 1859
Secondaîy prevention. 1860. 1861
Tertîary prevention. 1860. 1861
Pearson International Airport
.See Pearson International Airport Agreements bill C-22
Transport

INDEX
Pearson International Airport Agreements bill C-22. I r. 665;
2r, 677-79. 692-99. 729-34, 769-72, 773-79; ref to com,
779; rep with six amdts. 788-89, 800-10; m in amdt.
810-13; allorment of time for debate. 813-14: m in amdt
ne-,.814-15; rep adopted on div. 815-16z 3r, 816-30; min
amdt neg. 830-31; point of order. 831-32; 3r (con't), as
amended. on div, 832-33, Message from Commons
disagreeing with amdts. 845; m Io concur with Message
from Commons. 845. 857-63; m in amdt referring
question and Message from Communs 10 com. adopted
on div. 863-66; m instructing com to table final rep,
2399. 2429-32; debate concluded. 2470; m neg on div,
2484-85
Access to courts. 695, 696, 698. 771
Canadian Bill of Rights. 696-97. 732, 733, 734, 775
Canadian Charter of Rigahts and Freedoms. 695. 698. 732, 774
Cancellation clause. 677. 678, 694
Compensation. 730. 770, 817
Constitutionality, 821
Inquiry. 731. 769. 770, 776, 831
International Bill of Human Rights, 697
Management of airport. 678
Negotiations leading to agreement, 729, 771
Nixon Report. 678, 679, 693. 694, 698, 729, 730, 732, 733. 777
Notwithstanding clause, 774, 776
Out-of-pocket expenses, 678
Property rights. 697. 770
Public interest, 677. 678
Public policy. 677, 678, 698
Reimbursement of developers. 678
Royal Recommendation, 828. 829. 830
"Rule of law", 772, 774, 776, 777
War Damage Act. 1965 (Great Britain). 820
Speakers: Senators
Andreychuk A. Raynell. 770-71, 806, 807
Balfour, R. James, 729-32
Beaudoin, Gérald-A., 801-02, 830
Berntson. Eric Arthur, 679. 813. 816
Bolduc, Roch, 778
Di Nino. Consiglia. 769-70, 823, 824-25
Frith. Royce, 695, 771-72. 773-75, 778. 802-06. 807-08, 811, 812,
813, 815, 824. 827. 828, 829. 832. 833
Gigantès, Philippe Deane. 821-22, 823
Jessiman. Duncan J., 732-34, 828
Kinsella, Noël A.. 696-97. 698
Kirby, Michael, 677-79, 778-79
Lynch-Staunton, John, 679. 693-95, 696. 778, 811. 825-27, 829
Murray, Lowell. 775-78. 810-11, 812. 827, 829, 831
Nolin. Pierre Claude, 698-99
Oliver, Donald H.. 819-21
Pitfield, P. Michael. 816, 831-32
Prud'homme, Marcel, 808, 809-10. 812, 813, 814, 815, 816, 830.
831
St. Germain, Genry, 807. 808. 812, 813, 814-15
Simard, Jean-Maurice, 679
Spivak. Mira. 816
Stanbury, Richard J., 813. 814, 816, 817-19, 823. 827
Stewart. John B., 821, 827-30
Pepin, P.C., the late Hon. Jean-Luc, tributes. 2064-65
Perrault, P.C., Hon. Raymond J.
Aboriginal Peoples Comnrittee report
9th. Treatment of aboriginal veterans. 1482-83, 1493-94
Grievances. 1494
Independent investigator. 1494
Livinc conditions of veterans. 1484
Paîei nalismn. 1494
Reco--nition ot contribution. 1494
Remembrance Day services. 1494

Perrault, P.C., Hon. Raymond J.-Coor 'd
Aboriginal Peuples Committee-Cont 'd
Scholarship fund, 1494
Address in reply tu Speech from the Throne. 85-87
Business of the Senate. adjournment. 1775
Canada-China relations, humant rights in China and Tibet, tr, 1563.
1671-72
Communications. Radio Canada International. possibility of
alternative funding. guvernment position, qu. 2492.
2493
Criminal Code, amendments to sentencing provisions, st, 1180-81
Economy. partisan nature of the Opposition in the Senate, qu. 1226
Firefighters of North America, st. 1545
International trade, 1994 expurt statistics, 1222-23
LeBlanc. P.C.. Hon. Roméo, tributes on appuintment as Governor
General of Canada, 967
Legal and Constitutional Affairs Committee reports
2nd, Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Suspension, 1994
bill C- 18, 488, 493, 494-95
l6th, Firearms bill C-68, with 14 amdts. 2340
Marshall, Hon. Jack, tributes on retirement. 981
National Unity, proposed establishment of committee on reg-ional
aspirations, st, 2150
Neiman, Hon. Joan. tribute on retirement, 2040
Precincts of Parliament condition of carpet in Senate Chamber.
qu. 1728, 1729
Status of Women. anniversary of Privy Council decision.
congratulations to winners of 1995 Persons Awards.
st, 2117
Transport. Radio Canada International, invitation to Minister of
Foreign Affairs and International Trade to respund to
Senate commiùttee report, 1227
Transport and Communications Cominittee
Radio Canada International, authority to study implications of
reduction in funding, 78, 198-200
Cuts to language services. 198, 199
Satellite service, 199
Shurtwave service. 199
Report
Sth, Radio Canada International, study of mandate and funding,
781
International broadcasting, 781
Veterans affairs
Canadian Vietnam Veterans' Memorial. inquiry. 194
International peace parks, 194
U.S. veterans' benefits to Canadian veterans, 194
Canadian Vietnam Veterans' Memorial. m to provide site, 431. 433.
505-06, m in amdt. 506
National Capital Commission mandate, 506
Peacekeeping, 505
Peace Parks. 506
United States Embassy in Ottawa, 506
Vietnam War, Canada's role, 505
Petten, Hon. William J.
Aburiginal Peuples Committee. authority tu meet during sittings of
the Senate, 1085
Adjoumment, 951, 1109. 1177, 1727
Leave having been given to revert to Government Notices of
Motion, 1177, 1178
Answers to Order Paper questions tabled. 996, 1070, 1112
Business of the Senate. 1075, 1177
Adjurnnîit, 984. 994, 1038. 1057. 1084
Coastal Fisheries Protection amendment bill C-29, 452, 457-59;
considered in Committee of the Whole. 475
Conservation. 458
Environmental conditions. 457
Flags of convenience. 458, 459
International cooperation. 458
Northwest Atlantic Fisheries Organization (NAFO). 457. 458
Overfishing. 457, 458. 459

Petten, Hon. William .- Coid
Coastal Fishet tes Protection amendment bih -Con î'd
Quotas, 457
Stateless vessels, 458
Straddling stocks. 458. 459
Criminal Code amendment (dangerous intoxication) bill S-6, 988
Davey. Hon. Keith and Hastings, Hon. Ear1 A.. tributes on
twenty-eighth anniversary of appointments to Senate.
st. 159
Davtd. Hon. Paul, tributes on retirement from the Senate. 1162
Delayed answers. 955
Delayed answers to oral questions, 972. 986. 1011. 1041, 1087T
1111, 1136, 1169
Euthanasia and Assisted Suicide Special Committee, authority to
meet during sitting of the Senate. 1081
Folk of the Sea. Newfoundland pertorming arts group.
congratulations, si. 909
Foreign Affairs Committee, authority to meet during sitting of
Senate, 988. 989. 1084
Lang, Hon. Daniel A.. tributes on retirement. 616
LeBlanc. P.C., Hon. Romeo. tributes on appointment as Governor
General of Canada. 971
Marine Transportation Security bill C-38, 920-21, 996, 997
Cruise industry. 921
International Maritime Organization Standards. 921
Marine disasters. 920
Terrorism. 920. 921
Violence against passenger vessels, 921
Marshall. Hon. Jack. tributes on retirement. 982
Powers of parliamentary committees. paper reterred to Standing
Senate Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs,
1153
Rowe. the laIe Hon. Frederick William. tribute. 684
World Trade Organization Agreement Implementation bill C-57,
1164

Phillips, Hon. Orville H.
Budget. 1995
Cancellation of goods and services tax. governmrent position.
qu. 1251
Budget Implementation. 1994 amendment bill C-17. 532, 533, 556,
557-58
Atlantic Canada. 557
Canadian Broadcasting Corporation. 556. 557
Unemployment insurance. 557
Budget Implementation. 1995 bill C-76. 1855-56
Royal Canadian Legion, 1855-56
Budget. Statement of Minister of Finance. inquiry, 132, 369-70. 371
Atlantic Canada. 370. 371
Atlantic Canada Opportun tty Agency. 370
Fishing industry. 370
Infrastructure Program. 369
lnterest rates, 369
Small business. 369
Tourist industry. 370
Unemployment insurance. 370. 371
Unemployment rate. 370
Business of the Senate. adjournment. 2536
Canadian Broadcasting Corporation. National Film Board. Teleftlm
Canada. commissioning of production of war films.
tabled. 1191
Canadian Film Development Corporation amendment bill C-31. 661
Canadian Herttage. Canadtan Broadcasttng Corporation, cancellation
of contract ot Parrela Wallin with Prime limie Ncws
Magazine, goscrnmcrint position. qu. 1531
Coasîal Fisheries Protction arncndrnenî bill C-29, consideied in
Coriîîcittc o) the Wholc. 469. 470)
Elector-al Boundaries Readiosîniient. 1995 bill C-69. point ol orde.
1899

Phillips, Hon. Orville H.-Cont d
Human resources development
Inclusion of representatives of east coast fishermen on social
security task force. qu. 46
Request for financial aid for fisheries organizations. qu. 47
Justice
Appointment of sister of Minister to Court of Queen's Bench of
New Brunswick. g-overnment posttion. qu. 1301
Sale of Airbus aircraft to Air Canada. alleged conspiracy to
defraud federal gov ernment, libel action by former
Prime Minister. source of funding for government
counsel. qu. 2466
Legal and Constitutional Affairs Committee
Motion instructing comn 10 table final rep re C-69. point of order
2425
Notice of motion to instruct com 10 table final rep re C-69,
point of order 2370. 2377
Macquarrie, Hon. Heath. tributes on retirement, 721
Marshall. Hon. Jack, tributes on retirement. 979
Muir, Hon. Robert, tributes on retirement. 894
National Defence Policy. proposed Special Joint Comniîtee
Appointment, 152
National Defence. proposed cut-backs to defence expenditures,
govemment position. qu. 114
National Film Board. audit of president's expenses, tabled, 1229
OfficiaI Languages, Special Joint Committee
Estimates. 1994-95, Privy Councîl Vote 20 ref to Joint
Committee. 160. 161
Prince Edward Island, fixed link. mn 10 amend Constitution of
Canada. 169-70, 171, 172
Design changes, 172
Funding, 171
Str-aîght Crossing Incorporation (SCI). 170. 171
Supervisory commitîee. 170
Toîls. 171
Tourism. 170
Quebec. mnfor recognition as distinct society. 2477. 2478-80, 2534.
2535
The Valour and the Horror, amount and ternis oflbans to producers.
tabled. 1206
Transport
Institution of public inquiry. government position, qu. 1472
Pearson Airport Agreements
Implications of alleg-ed involvement of Prime Mînîster, request
for clarification. qu. 1472
Request for judicial inquiry. government position. qu. 1489,
1490
Request for îabling of Iawyer's time dockets relating 10 meeting
with Matthews Group, qu. 1501-02
Pearson International Airport. implications of alleged involvement
of Prime Minister qu. 1058, (r) 1136
Pearson International Airport redevelopment. alleged involvement
of Prime Minister, request for further answer, qu. 1165
Veterans aftaîrs, Canadian Vietnam Veterans' Memorial
Inquiry, 175
Motion 10 urge government 10 provide site. 520
Veterans Review and Appeal Board bill C-67, 1666-68, 1858-59
Minister's power, 1667
Pension advocates. 1667, 1668. 1859

Pictou Landing Indian Band Agreement bll C-60. hr. 1223:
2r, 1255-56: refto1 com. 1256: rep wiîhout amdt. 1355:
3r, 1378; r.a.. chap. 4. 1995. 1446
Boat Haibour Final Agreement. 1255. 1256
Compensation. 1255. 1256
Indian mioneys. 1256
Rclocation lund. 1255. 1250
Ripai ian iîghts. 1255
Treatnin ÏaciIity. l255. 1256

INDEX
Pictou Landing Indian Band Agreement bill C-60-Cont'd
Speakers: Senators
Berntson. Eric Arthur, 1256

Buchanan, John, 1256
Graham, B. Alasdair. 1378
Marchand. Len, 1255-56

Pitrleld, P.C., Hon. P. Michael
Legal and Constitutional Affairs Committee report
16th, firearms bill C-68, with 14 amdts, 2338
Pearson International Airport Agreements bill C-22, 816, 831-32
Inquiry, 831

Points of order
Appropriation No. 4, 1994-95 bill C-79. beyond scope of supply bill
(Tkachuk), 1453-58; Speaker's ruling. 1475-76
Contravention of Rule 26 (Oison), 240
bill
C-69
Boundaries
Readjustment,
1995
Electoral
(Lynch-Staunton), 1896-903, Speaker's ruling. 1913
Karla Homoika bill S-il1, bill of attainder procedure (Kinsella).
2139-43; Speaker's ruling. 2367-68
Legaal and Constitutional Affairs Committee
Firearms bill C-68, time of vote (Prud'homme), 2291
Motion instructing coin to table final rep re C-69 (Kinsella),
2423-28; Speaker's ruling, 2428-29
Notice of motion instructing comn to table final rep (Phillips),
2370, 2376-80, 2381, 2389; Speaker's ruling, 2390-94
Members of Parliament Retiring Allowances amendment bill C-85
(Corbin), 2018
On motion to adjourni debate (Frith), 431-32, 433
On motion to adjourn debate on private senator's bill (Corbin). 988
On motion to strike special committee to examine and report upon
the conduct and behaviour of certain officers and
justices, 1625-29; Speaker's ruling, 2003-05; 2170-72
Privileges, Standing Rules and Orders (Corbin), 1745-47, 1779-82;
Speaker's ruling, 1843-44
Reviewing Canada's Foreign Policy, ruling by Speaker of the House
of Commons (MacEachen). 1014-18; Speaker's ruling,
1192-94
Dissenting opinion, 1014. 1016, 1017
Minority reports, 1016
Rules which apply to joint committees. 10 16, 1017
Shared costs of joint cominittees, 10 16
Stand-alone reports, 10 14, 1016
Speakers: Senators
Corbin, Eymard G., 1017
Gauthier, Jean-Robert, 1015. 1017-18
Lynch-Staunton. John, 1016, 1018
MacEachen, Allan J.. 1014, 1015-16, 1018, 1193-94
Murray, Lowell, 1016
Ottenheimer, Gerald R., 1015
Stewart, John B., 1017
Senators' Statemnents (MacDonald). 546-47

Post-secondary education
Scholarship Program, effect of cuts, possibility of
qu.
1341.
government position,
replacement,
(r) 1588-89
Canada Student Loans Program, impact on federal funding,
government position. qu. 605, (r) 835
Effect of cuts to social transfer payments on unversity enrolment.
qu. 1683, (r) 1990-91
Effects of withdrawal of federal funding, government position,
qu. 333
Financing arrangements for student boans. government policy.
qu. 333, (r) 424
Growth in revenue from EPF transfers tax points. possihility of
transfer to institutions. qu. 934-35. (r) 1377-78
Increases in universîty tuition tees in Newfoundland. governiment
position. qu. 1532, (r) 1589
Canada

Post-secondary education-Conr 'd
Reinstatement or replacement of Canada Scholarships
governmrent position. qu. 1683-84

Fund.

Poulin, Hon. Marie-P. (introduced in the Senate Oct. 3/95). 2058-60
Controlled Drugs and Substances bill C-7, 2184, 2219
Prescription drugs. 2184
Treatment programs. 2184
Desmarais. the late Hon. Jean Noël. tribute. 2062-63
Poverty ini Canada, document tabled, 784

Powers of parliamentary committees, paper referred to Standing
Senate Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs,
1070, 1129-30, 1153
Speakers: Senators
Corbin, Eymard G., 11 30
Kelly, William M.. 1130
MacDonald, Finlay, 1129-30
Neiman, Joan, 1130
Petten, William J.. 1153

Practice of Family Law in Ontario, inquiry. 1958
Precinets of Parliament
Authority to initiate project. qu. 1132
Cancellation of East Block Tunnel project, request for information.
qu. 1549, (r) 1694
Central heating problems. request for remedy. qu. 1168, (r) 1305
Condition of carpet in Senate Chamher. qu. 1728-29
Consultations with Senate belore undertaking further work,
government position. qu. 1167
Locking of East Block doors. government position. qu. 1616
Proposed renovations, government position, qu. 452-53. (r) 974
Proposed renovations to East and Centre Blocks, government
position, qu. 306-08, (r) 974
Request for definition, qu, 1168, (r) 1304-OS
Role of Speakers as chairmen of Internai Economy Committees of
both Houses, qu, 1168
Tunnel between East Block and Centre Block
Appropriateness of expenditure, g-overnment position, qu. 1131-32
Request for information, qu, 1166-67, (r) 1535
See also Public Works

Prince Edward Island
Fixed link. change in design of bridge. environmental assessment
review process. government position, qu. 185-86
Fixed link. mn to amend Constitution of Canada, 110. 166-73,
204-07, 227-29, adopted. 240-43
Amending formula, 207
Back-up service. 172, 204, 241. 242
Bilateral agreement, 167. 206
Bridge, 167
Bridge construction agreement, 168
Bridge design, 205, 229, 241
Clearance, 241
Compensation fund. 168
Constitutional obligation, 241, 242
Continuous communication, 171, 172
Cost, 204, 205
Design changes. 171. 172, 242
Dredging, 228
D.st storms. 228
Environmental review. 167. 205. 228
Ferry service. 204, 205. 206
Fenry workers. 168
Financing. 169. 171
Fisheries Liaison Committee. 168. 170
Ice build-up. 205. 241
Jobs. 168
Prince Edward Island Terms of Union. 167

Prince Edward Island-Cont'd
Straight Crossing lncorporated (SCI). 170. 171
ToIls. 169, 170
Tourism. 169, 170
Wood Islands-Caribou ferry, 242. 243
Speakers: Senators
Beaudoin, Gerald-A., 206-07
Faiibairn. Joyce, 167-69, 172, 173, 240, 241-42. 243
Macquarrie. Heath, 172, 204. 227-29, 242, 243
Molgat. Gildas L.. 166-67. 229. 243
Phillips. Orville H.. i69-70, 171
Prud'homme. Marcel. 172
Spivak. Mira. 204-06
Stewart. John B.. 171-72. 229. 242-43
Macphail. Sir Andrew. tribute to. document tabled. 917-18
Transfer of Northumberland Strait Bridge office to Charlottetown,
tabled. 851-52
Upgrading of Charlottetown Harbour facilities. tabled. 852
Privacy Commissioner, annual reports tabled. 845. 2067
Privilege, 1492. 2508
See oh'> Questins of Privilege
Privileges, Standing Rules and Orders, Standing Senate Committee
Authority to act jointly wiîh House of Commons Procedure and
House Affairs Committee on examination of operation
of joint committees. adopted. 1678
Point of order. 1696, 1745-47. 1779-82: Speaker's rulin. 1843-44
Membership
See Journals ot the Senate
Motion to study and report upon decîsion of House of Commons to
cease publication of commitîce proceedings. 1595,
1686-88. 1720-23, 1754-55
Reports
Ist. expenses incurred during 3rd Session. 34th Parliament. tabled.
202
Sec Journals of the Senate
2nd. recommending deletion of Rule 26 from Rules of the Senate,
932,.adopted. 1010
3rd. amending Rule 17(1), recall of Senate. 1615. adopted. 1640
4th. printing separate Order Paper. chang-ing tille of Minutes to
Journals. amending Rules 29(2). (5). 86(4). 105(5) and
128, printing new Rules of the Senate and requesting
Library Of Parliament 10 prepare new index 10 Rules.
1957. adopted. 2095
Property qualification of Senators, report presented. 360
Proposais for Social Refoiri, inqîîiry. 873. 906-08(
Aboriginal peoples. 908
Commission on Systemic Racism in the Ontario Criminal Justice
System. 906
Crime Prevention Council. 907
Dîsabled, 908
Discrimination within crîminal justice system. 906
Racîsm in Ontanio justice system. 907
Royal Commission on the Do.nald Marshall Jr. prosecution in
Nova Scoîta. 906, 907
Treatment of blacks in Ontario prisons. 906
Visible minoritles. 908
Womnen. 908
Speaker: SenaloiOliveri. Donald H., 873, 906-08)
Prud'homme, M.C., Hon. Marcel
All mand. PC.. the Hon. Warrien Wv.. l'el ici talions o n thiîî ieili
annisci sars as Memibei nI Parîiamni. si, 2229

Prud'homme, P.C., Hon. Marcel-Coiîi'd
Berger. His Excellency David
Felîcitations on his appointment as Ambassador to Israel. st, 1977
Scrutiny on views prior 10 his appointment as Ambassador 10
lsrael and Cyprus, government position. qu. 2010-11,
(r) 2115
Budget 1995, Statement of Minîster of Finance, inquiry. 1268,
1269-70
National Finance Commitîce. role of. 1269-70
Senate. role of. 1268
Business of the Senate. 64. 479, 484, 800. 1962. 1963
Adjournment. 1776. 1916. 2230
Motion stands. 2175-76
Canada Grain amendmenî bill C-51. 1163
Canada Remembers. fiftieth anniversary of D-Day. st. 582
Canadian Heritage, governmenî documents published unilingually,
infraction of policy on officiai languages, government
position, qu, 1893
Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission.
increase in local telephone rates. government position.
qu, 2167
Chaput-Rolland. Hon. Solange, tributes on retirement. 417
Chemical Weapons Convention Implemnentation bill C-87, 1876-78
Middle East, 1877-78
Christmas Greetinges. 2546
Clerk of the Senate
Appoinîment of Gordon Bamhart. Esq.. as honorary officer of the
Senate. felicitations. 180
Appointment of Paul C. Belisle. Esq.. as Clerk of the Senate.
felicitations, 180
Coastal Fisheries Protection amendment bill C-29. 452z considered
in Committee of the Whole. 467-68
Code of Conduct Special Joint Committee. mnto appoint. adopîed.
1970
Communications
Granting of public relations contract for G-7 Summnit. request foiparticulars on advice given to RCMP, qu. 1928. (r) 2082
Radio Canada International, future prospects for contînuance
Government position. qu. 2463
Report of Senate cominitîce on continued funding. government
position, qu. 249f)
Constitutional Amendments bill C-110, Special Senate Coinmiîîee.
mn10 establish. 2547-48
Constitutional amendmenîs. distribution of veto power. status of
British Columbia, government position. qu. 2400. 2417
David. Hon. Paul. tributes on retirement fromn the Senate. 1162
Defence. lobbyists involved in acquisition. request for particulars.
qu. 1634, 1993. (r) 2367
Deparîment of Foreign Affairs and International Trade bill C-47,
1380. 1381
Spendîng estimates. 1380
Desmarais. the late Hon. Jean Noë~l, tribute. 2063
Distinauished Visitors. seminar, Canadian parliamentary system.
st, 542
Elections Canada. electoral boundaries readjusîment process.
extension of deadline, request for particulars.
qu, 2251-52
Electoral Boundaries Readjusîmnent. 1995 bill C-69. 1733-35; point
of order. 1901-03; mn 10 refer question and message
from Commons 10 com. 1968-69: mnto instruet comn 10
table final report. 2189
Electoral Boundaries Readjusîment Suspension. 1994 bill C- 18.
348-50
Role of Senate. 348
Royal Commission on Electoral Refoini <Lortie). 348
Size of House of Commnons. 349, 350
Evereit. Hon. 1)oulcIas [D.. iesiOcnalion lîoni Scnaie. annotuncement
aînd loibules. 20-1I
Fedieral-pros uncial relations. conduci (il secui il selrsices in Quchcc.
ýýos i-nimeni opel ations. qu. 1742 43

INDEX
Prud'honime, P.C., Hon. Marcel-Conr 'd

Felicitations on the occasion of bis thirtieth anniversary in
Parliament, 91
Firearms legislatien. presentation of resolutien. st. 2242
First Nations Government bill S-10, 1602. 1620
Royal Recommendation, 1620
Foreign affairs
Proposed visit of Chairrnan Arafat of Palestine. requirement for
ministerial permit. govemnment position. qu. 501-02. (r)
587
Request for newly appointed Ambassador te Israel and Cyprus te
appear before committee. qu. 1983, 1984
Foreign Affairs Comrnittee Reports
3rd. Canada-United States Free Trade Agreement and the North
American Free Trade Agreement, 589
6th. budget, examinatien on the consequences of the economic
integration of the European Union, 1885
Health and Welfare. establishment of special cemmittee. inquiry.
128-29

Attcmpted suicidc, 129
Hopkins, M.P., Mr. Leonard, felicitations on thirtieth anniversary as
Member of Parliarnent. st. 2229
Human Resources Develepment. child care, federal offer of funding.
lack of consultation with provinces. governmnent
position, qu. 2503
Hurnan rights
Relationship te trade. request for debate, qu. 1693
Request for debate on human rights and trade, government
position, qu. 914
Vigilance towards situations develeping in other countries.
government position. qu. 2505-06
Husseini, Faisal Abdel Qader aI. role in Middle East peace
negotiations, st, 2098
Indian affairs, status of negotiations on Oka, mIle of chief federal
negotiator. 513
Lang, Hon. Daniel A.. tributes on retirement. 615-16
Lawson. Hon. Edward M., twenty-fifth anniversary of appointment
te the Senate, 2097
LeBlanc, P.C., Hon. Roméo, tributes on appeintment as Governor
General of Canada. 969-70
Leblanc, the late Hon. Fernand E.. tributes. 2553
Legal and Constitutienal Affairs Comntittee
Authority te meet during sitting of the Senate. 1740
Motion instructing cern te table final rep re C-69. point of order.
2428
Notice of motion instructing cern te table final rep re C-69,
point of erder, 2379. 2380, 2393
Reports
2nd, Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Suspension, 1994
bill C-18, 496
8th. Pearson International Airport Agreements bill C-22, 789.
808. 809-10. 812, 813, 814, 815. 816
lOth. Electoral Boundaries Readjustment 1995 bill C-69. 1725.
1726-27

I 4th. Electoral Boundaries Readjustment, 1995 bill C-69,
mi and message frem Cemmons, 2021-22-, m in amdt,
in
2029-30, mn amdt, 2034-35
16th, Firearms bill C-68, with 14 amdts, 2291. 2299
Library of Parliarnent. Standing Joint Committee
Appointrnent of Senators. 161
Macdonald, Hon. John M., tributes on eighty-ninth birthday.
1571-72

Marshall, Hon. Jack, tributes on retirernent. 979
Members of Parliarnent Retiring Allowances arnendment bill C-85.
1940-42. 2016-18. 2019
Common-law relationships. 2017
Double dipping. 1940. 1941. 1942. 2016. 2017
Molgaat. Hon. Gildas L.
Felicitations on appointment as Speaker of the Senate. 948-49
Twenty-tifth anniversary of appointment to the Senate. 20>97
Muir. Hon. Robert. tributes on retirement. 892-93

Prud'hommne, P.C., Hon. Marcel-Cont 'd

National Anthern. obligation to perforrn by members of the House of
Commons. consequences of dernand by Reforrn Party.
st. 2347-48
National Defence Policy. Special Joint Comnujttee
Appointment. 150, 153-55
National flag of Canada. thirtieth anniversary of designation as
national ernblem. st. 1203
National security
Proposai to strike special comrnittee
Clarification of government position. qu. 881. 882
Govemnment position. qu. 875-77, 903, 904, (r) 1042
Request for answer. qu, 1132. 1133
National unity
Aftermath of Quebec referendum. comments of John Nunziata.
M.P., st. 2174
Proposed establishment of committee on regional aspirations.
st. 2150-51, 2152
Quebec referendum, response of some Quebecers to
communications from schoolchildren in other parts of
the country, st. 2415
Neiman. Hon. Joan, tribute on retirement, 2042
New senators, 843-44
Felicitations. 843-44
Introduction. 869-70, 2060. 2550-51
Old Age Security. Canada Pension Plan, Children's Special
Allowances, Unemploymnet Insurance amendment
bill C-54, 1937-38
OfficiaI Languages, Standing Joint Committee
Appointrnent of Senators. 161
Pearson Airpert Agreements, Special Senate Committee reports
I st, Budget, 177 1. adopted, on div. 1784-86
Point of order, 1771
3rd, reserving right te hold further hearings and adjourning with
no appointed date, 2599
Pearson International Airport Agreements bill C-22, 830. 831
Motion te concur with Message frorn Comnions. 864-66
Pepin, PC.. the late Hon. Jean-Luc. tribute. 2065
Precincts of Parliament, role of Speakers as chairmen of InternaI
Economy Comimittees of both Houses, qu. 1168
Prince Edward Island, fixed link, m te amend Constitution of
Canada. 172
Back-up system. 172
Privilege, 2508
Privileges. Standing Rules and Orders Comrnittee, authority te study
and report upon decision of the House of Commons te
cease publication of comrn]ttee proceedings, 1721-23
Quebec
Distinct society resolution, comments by the chair of the Standing
Comrnittee on Canadian Heritage, governiment position,
qu, 2539-40
Motion for recognition as distinct society. 2454, 2532-34, 2535
Quebec nationalism, inherent contradictions, inquiry, 611-12
Royal Canadian Mint amendment bill C-82, 1918, 1919, 1932-34.
1993-95
St-Jean-Baptiste Day, good wishes te French Canadians. 1916-17
Selection Committee
Authority te extend deadline for selection of members 'of Special
Comittee on Pearson Airport Agreements. 1632
Reports
2nd, membership of committees. 22-24, 25
5th, membership of Code of Conduct Special Joint Cornnittee.
1982. 1996
Senate
2433-34
Criticism by members of the media. st.

Correction. 2443
Proposai for debate on foreign affairs and national defence.
request for commitrment. qu. 552-53

Prud'homme, P.C., Hon. Marcel-Coniîd
Transport
Measure to terminate railway strike. mi to debate ref to Cominitcee
of the Whole. 1373; considered in Committeec o' the
Whole. 1400-01. 1406
Pearson Airport agreements. request tor public inquiry.
government position, qu. 902
Pearson International Airport. mi to strike Special Committee to
inquire into privatization contracts. 1567-68
Trudeau. Pierre Elliott, congratulations on the occasion of his
75th birthday. st. 871
Turcotte. His Eminence Jean-Claude. tributes on nomination as
cardinal. st. 910
Tweed and District Hîstoricai Society, st. 2499
United Nations. fiftieth anniversary of founding-. si. 1921-22
Veterans affairs. m to urge government to provîde site for Canadian
Vietnam Veterans' Memorial. 520. 521-23
Victory in Europe. bornage to resistance movements. st. 1614
Vîsitors in the gallery. 917. 932
Wenman. the laie Robert Lloyd. tribute. st. 1795-96
West Coast Ports Operations. 1995 bill C-74. i1323-24; considered in
Committee ot the Whole. 1333
Winter Olympics 2002, candidacy of Quebec City. qu. 1763
Public Service Health Care Plan, disparity in nursing care coverage.
st. 599-600
Public Service 2000, report tabled. 482
Publie Works
Cancellation of building contraci in Dorval. Quebec. substitution of
rentai agreement. iequest lor- particulars. qu. 1586.
(r) 1717-18
Cancellation of proîects within parliamentary prccincts. government
position. qu. 1215-16, (r) 1536
Consultation with Internai Economy Committee on cancellation of
project. qu. 1215, (r) 1536
Decision of Ministcr tu buiid new federal building in Sault Ste.
Marie. request for details of contract. qu. 1186-87,
(r) 1535-36
Details of costs involved in canceilation of project. qu. 1215.
(r) 1536
Diversion of tunds from designated Nova Scotia Highway Proledt.
abuse of priviiege by Minister, government position.
qu. 1709
Harbourfront. Toronto. closing due to funding cuts. government
position. qu. 1533-34
Reconstruction of East Block Tunnel. status of project. qu. 1215.
(r) 1536
Renovation of East Block, Senate input. government position.
qu, 187, (r) 972-74
Renovation of windows at Lester B. Pearson Building. canceliation
of contract. g-overnment position. qu. 15-32, (r) 1694
See aIM) Precincts of Parliament
Public Works, future of Harbourfront
wîthdrawn, 1569

Centre.

inquiry.

1529.

Quebec
Distinct society motion. legal opinion sought on interpretation of
wording. government position. qu. 2491
Distinct society resolution. comments by the chair of the Standing
Commîttee on Canadian Heritage. governiment position.
qu. 2539-40
lmpiiendinc clection and referendum, action lor- national unîîy.
g1oscromeni position. qu. 111
motionî to i-co,(Izize as distinct socit. 2399. 2452-58. 2470) 80.
adopîcd. 2i-27-36
Aboiinaiil or treaN i-ighis. 2453
Alberta veto. 2457

Quebec-Coît 'd
Motion to recognize as distinct society-Cmni'd
Canadian public inîerest. 2455
Civil law tradition. 2452
First ministers conterence. 2454. 2455-56
French-speaking majority. 2452
Minorîties. 2453
Parallel statements. 2454
Quebec veto. 2529
Quebec's possers. 2456
Unempinyment insurance sustcm. 2453
Unique culture. 2452
Veto. 2453. 2456
Speakers: Senators
Bacon. Lise. 2527-28
Beaudoin. Géraid A.. 2455-56. 2528-29
Fairbaîrn. Joyce. 2399. 2452-54. 2455, 2456
Gauthier. Jean-Robert, 2530-31i
Grafstein. Jerahmiei S.. 2529
Graham. B. Alasdaîr. 2473-74
Kinseila. Noël A.. 2455. 2529-30
Lynch-Staunton. John. 2454. 2470-73
Nolin. Pierre Claude. 2454. 2455. 2456. 2474-76
Oison. H.A.. 2454. 2456, 2457. 2458
Pearson. Landon. 2531-32
Phillîips. Orvilie H.. 2477. 2478-80. 2534. 2535
Prud'homme. Marcel. 2454. 2532-34. 2535
Simard. Jean-Maurice, 2535-36
Stanbuîy. Richard J.. 2476-77
Prime Minister's proposais. means of gainn necessary consent of
provinces. government position. qu. 2363
Recognition as distinct socieîy. ni. 2399
Straîegy of separatists. st. 1336-37
Quebec nationalism, inherent contradictions. inquîry. 421. 60)8-12
Speakers: Senators
Grafstein. Jerahm ici S.. 421
Hebert. Jacques. 612
Lynch-Staunton. John. 6t1t
Murray, Lowell. 611
Nolin. Pierre Claude. 611
Prud'homme. Marcel. 611, 612
Robichaud. Louis-J.. 612
Quebec referendum
See National Unity
Questions of Privilege, 845. 855. 867-68. 877. 1492. 1522-23. 2105-07.
2163. 2202-0)5
Notice of motion pursuant to Rule 43. 836. 2098. 2152
Response to Speaker's ruiing. 930-31
Point of order. 931
Speaker's rulings. 919-20. 2211-12. 2351-53
See ci/so Privilege
Questions (oral)
Aboriginal Peoples
Co-managemnent agreements in Saskatchewan, request foi
particulars. 1706-07
Rate of iliteracy among native youth. government position.
2384-85
Report of Senate Committee on plîght of aboriginal veterans.
requesi for response. 2233
Rîght to self-determî nation. oovernment position. 2384
Seholarshîpi toi aboriginal s'ctcians. request lor- response to report
o) Sî;ndincý Sciîatc Coiimiitîce. 2540)
AL]iiCUiturIe
Canad ian Wlîecî Boaird
Pi oposcd incrcase in iniutîi pice if g a in. Los eilieni positlion.
al
"Il,)
TiiniiinL o) esarniinatioiî h\ exprs L cin iiin position. 211
os

INDEX
Questions (oral)-Conr'd
Agriculture-Con! 'd
Crow rate. costs of transporting grain. govemnment position. 666,
(r) 834-35
Delay in grain sbipment from prairies. government position. 321.
(r) 455-56
Grain transportation, possible sale of hopper cars. government
position. 2440
Handling of grain on west coast. effect of failure to meet
commitments.gaovernment position. 454, (r) 655
Imposition of U.S. import tax on Canadian sugar products,
discussion witb President during upcoming visit.
1211-12
Improvement in international grain market, request for analysis of
situation, 1223, (r) 1361
Movement of grain on west coast. govemrment position. 422
Potato bligaht in New Brunswick. compensation for damages
sustained by growers. government position. 1213.
(r) 1303-04
Reduction of grain transportation subsidies, assistance to farmcers
for increase in rail freigbt costs. government position,
1238
Reduction of transportation subsidies. effect on Manitoba
economy, 1238
Strike by west coast longasboremen, delay in introducing
back-to-work legislation. 47-48
Threat to, sugar industry under new GATT rules. government
position. 1110- 11, (r) 1240-41I
Toronto, status of trade negotiations, governanent position, 239
Transportation of grain, shortage of hopper cars. government
position. 285
Western grain marketing. possibility of national plebiscite.
government position, 2491-92, (r) 2610
Western grain transportation, backhaul to Thunder Bay,
governiment position. 104 1, (r) 1190
Atlantic Canada
Dependence on Scotia Synfuels project. reinstatement of special
investment tax credit. government position, 186-87,
517, (r) 555
Atlantic Canada Opportunities Agency
Atlantic Canada regaional venture capital fund. equity financing
needs of small business, governiment position. 1110
Auditor General's report, efflcacy of infrastructure job statistics.
government position, 2404-05
Cornwallis Park Development Agency
Allegations of mismanagement
Findings of National Defence investigation. government
position, 2318
Response of minister, 2177
Stoppage of funds, govemment position, 2167
Circumstances surrounding appointment of Board of Directors,
government position, 2168
Inventory control and hiring procedures, request for particulars,
2211
Request for answer to order paper question on KPMG report,
2209-10
Request for investigation by Auditor General. governiment
position. 2177
Support for investigation by Auditor General into allegations of
mismanagemnent. government position, 2371
Cuts by Minister to National Defence Adjustment Fund,
government position, 1340, (r) 1744-45
Future of agency
Government position. 238
Objectives and scope of government review. 252. (r) 423
Grants to projects in New Brunswick. government position. 452.
(r) 556
Location and nature of management. govemment policy. 323
Method of awarding projects. government policy. 286. (r) 424
Request for information on projects. 1471-72. (r) 1745
Substitution of bans lor- subsidies

Questions (oral )-Cont'd
Atlantic Canada Opportunities Acency-Coni 'd
Application of similar rules in ail provinces. governrnent
position. 1110. (r) 1191
Government position. 1087, (r) 1190
Atomic Energy of Canada Limited
Appointment and competence of chairman. government position,
250-51
Auditor General. dispute with departments over unreported
liabilities, government policy. 1728, (r) 2075
Berger. Ris Excellency David, scrutiny on views prior to his
apppointment as Ambassador to lsrael and Cyprus.
government position, 2010-11, (r) 2115
Bosnia
Ban on sale of armaments. govemnment policy. 333
Canada's commitmnent to NATO air strikes. government position,
93-94
Coherence of NATO strategy. government policy, 111 - 12. (r) 287
Conditions for continuation of peacekeeping mission. visit of UN
government position. 1040,
Secretary-General,
(r) 1341-42
NATO air strikes on un-designated safe areas, governiment policy,
333
United Nations, request for NATO air strikes. government
position, 303-04
Use of air strikes. Canada's role, government position. 94, 115
Budget
Action against high interest rates. government position. 1086
Canadian Broadicasting Corporation, justification of funding,
government position, 163
Changes to miles governing RRSP contributions, position of
government, 96
Closure and future use of Downsview Military base. government
position, 238-39, (r) 324
See appendix p. 331 A
Closure of Military College at St-Jean. related additional costs,
623. (r) 670-71
Definition of tax loophole, 1237
Effect of carbon tax on cost of agricultural production, 94
Elderly benefits assessed by household income. government
position, 953
Elimidnation of tax breaks for health and dental plans, government
position. 1110
Extension of wage freeze for public servants, government
position, 132-33
Grants to municipalities in lieu of taxes. government policy. 216.
(r) 310
Impact of budget on Atlantic region, concept of fairness,
government position. 165
International Space Station Program
Status of Canada's commitment, govemrment position, 161-63,
(r) 221-22
Request for clarification, 236-37. (r) 1985-86
Methods of deficit reduction. governiment position, 1097
Military and funding cut-backs, effect on employment, 134
New Brunswick, effect of changes to unemployment insurance.
governiment position, 188, (r) 308-09
Private pension income, possible elimination of tax credit.
consultation with senior citizens, 1239
Proposed closure of Collège Militaire Royal de St-Jean
Request for clarification. 334, (r) 668
Resumption of discussions, government position. 1111
ReversaI of decision. government position. 185. 217T 218-20.
(r) 309, 668
Proposed closure of Royal Military Colle-e at St-Jean. request for
update. 622
Proposed closure of Royal Militaî-y College of St-Jean. 398-99
Cancellation of decision. g-overnment position. 305
Reversai of decision. gaoveinment position. 237-38
R & D cut-backs. elïect on British Columbia. 135

Questions (oral) Coi'd
Budget-Coni d
Reaction of International Monetary Fund to government's
proposai to reduce deficit. governiment response. 953-54
Reduction of federal debt and annual deficît. government policy.
952-53
Reg-istered Retirement Savings Plans. government position on
possible chang-es. 994-95. (i) 1112
Removal of tax credit. effeet on seniors. 136-37
Request foi date of presentation. 1225
Government response, 1227
Request for formaI debate. government position. 1227-28
Review of goal for deficit reduction. government position,
1085-86
State of the economy, governiment position. 1226
Tax increases for wealthy Canadians. government position.
1223-24
Threshold for clawbacks. consultations with senior cîtizens.
1238-38
Unemployment insurance. change in daration of claims.
goivernment position. 163-64
Budget Implementation bill. 1995
Federal- Provincial negotiations to establish standards for health
and social transfers. 1635
Proposed amendments to reflect national standards. request for
particulars. 1635-36, (r) 1745
Budget 1995
Cancellation of goods and services tax. government position,
1251
Closure of agricultural research stations, govern ment position.
1286-87
Defence Industry Productivity Program. gOovernment position.
1373-74, (r) 1552
Elimination of Crow Rate subsidy
Effect on grain shipping ports. governiment position. 1284.
(r) 1360-61
End of grain marketing monopoly of Canadian Wheat Board.
goverroment position. 1285
Maintenance of grain economy in Manitoba. governmenî
position. 1286. (r) 1616
Possibility
of assistance
from
Western
Economic
Diversification, government position. 1286. (r) 1616
Elimination of Public Utilîties Income Tax Transfer Act. effect on
Province of Alberta, governmrenî position. 1251-52
Inequality in funding treaiment of Atlantic agencies. 1302-03,
(r) 1744
Precedence of budget statement of Finance Minister over
Red Book, govemnment position. 1250
Ratio of spending cuts to tax increases. government position.
1251
Reduction to international assistance envelope, government
position. 1250-51
Reform of Old Age Security
Effect on elderly women of application of clawback to
household income. 1287
Effect on older married women of application of clawback to,
household income. 1252-53
Status of RRSP as tax loophole. governiment position. 1237-38.
(r) 1549-50
Business of the Senate
Order Paper questions. request for answers. 1472-73
ProposaI to establish comînîttee to investîgate orders of reference.
governmenî position. 955
Report of Legal and Constitutional Affairs Commnittee on firearms
leg-islation. votes on arnendrnents. request for ads ce on
Cabinet. Liberal election promises on reduction in size. governinient
position. 17017-08
Canada Assi stance PIlan. i Cmos ai ot'programis Ilom hlock t o ig
11121
provinces. (,ovei*onent position. 18(05

Questions (oral) Gotiî'd
Canada-China relations
Diplomatic representations to China on sîxth anniversary of
Tiananmen Square massacre. requesi for information.
1691
Human rights and commercial relations. government policy.
1691-92. (r) 2154-55
Protest over granti ng of visa to Tiawanese official. government
position. 1691, (r) 2047
Repiesentations on human îights abuses. government position.
238. (r> 455
Trade in goods manufactured in labour camps. goveroment policy.
2112-13. (r) 2558
Validity of statement on freedom of religion in Tibet, government
position. 1692. (r) 2153-54
Visit to Canada of Chinese Premier. raising of human righîs
issues. government position. 2112
Canada Council
Closure of Art Bank
Government position. 1534. (r) 1600-01
Request for answer. 1589
Prior consultations wîth minister. government position. 1960-61
Reduction in staff in Atlantic Reglion. etfect on programs.
governme nt position. 1635. (r) 1694-95
Royal Winnipeg Ballet. loss of student grants due to budget cuts.
possibility of alternate tunding. government position.
1895. (r) 2049-50
Canada Heahîh and Social Transfer. effect on spending of provincial
gaovemnments. govemment position. 1634-35
Canada Post Corporation
Delay in delivery of mail. government position. 2168
Extension of contract on leases, request for information on
members of consortium. 1983. 2010. (r) 2115
Lease of' premises in Sydney, Nova Scotia. intervention of
Minister of Public Works. 1982-83. (r) 2083
Requesi for answer. 2010
See appendix, p. 2084
Canada-United States Free Trade Agreement
Grains. breakdown in trade relations. government position,
502-03, (r) 1088
Canada-United States Relations
Proposed imposition of U.S. border-crossîng tax. governimenî
position. 1183
Canadian Broadcasting Corporation. evaluation of operattons of
corporation. 252, (r) 325
Canadian Coast Guard. search and rescue operations. state of
helicopter fleet. 45
Canadian Heritage
Abolition of Art Bank, role of minister. 1762. (r) 2076
Actions of Film Revîew Board on adult films. government
position. 1452, (r) 1693-94
Canadian Broadcasting Corporation. cancellation of contract of
Pamela Wallin with Prime Tinie News Magazine.
government position. 1531
Catalogue of national sports events. failure to publish in French,
goverroment position. 1841-42, (r) 2080
Expo 2005, report of independent evaluators. decîsion based on
polîtics or menit. govemment position. 152 1. (r) 1600
Government documents published unilingually. infraction. of
polîcy on officiai languages. government position.
1892-94
Canadian International Developmient Agency. fillîng o) vacant
positions without competition. governiment position.
2269
Canadian Radio-television and Telecoinmunications Commission.
inciease in lo~cal telephone rates. government po~sitio~n.
2167
Ch ina. boinani rights and conmmer cial relations
Gos eî ornent î)l icN. 6f) I 02
Gos einicnt position, 5i3, 6(04(15. (r) 835-36

INDEX
Questions (oral)-Cont'd

Citizenship and immigration
Review of refugee status claimants, government position, 501,
(r) 833-34
Communications
Granting of public relations contract for G-7 Summit
Contravention of Treasury Board regulations, government
position, 1927-28
Request for estimated final cost, 1928, (r) 2081-82
Request for answer, 1959
Request for particulars on advice given to RCMP. 1928,
(r) 2082
Radio Canada International
Future prospects for continuance
Government position, 2463
Report of Senate committee on continued funding,
government position, 2489-90
Possibility of alternative funding, government position,
2492-93
Satellite broadcasting, consultation with CRTC and with both
Houses of Parliament, government position, 1803-04
Conflict of interests
Lobbying, influence peddling and selling access, 354-55, (r) 456
Constitution
Government efforts to keep Quebec within Confederation, 113
Constitutional amendments
Availability of opportunity for the proposal of amendments,
government position, 2416-17
Clarification of situation in relation to aboriginal aspirations,
government position, 2417
Distribution of veto power, status of British Columbia,
government position, 2400, 2417
Schedule for consideration of legislation, possibility of pre-study,
government position, 2437-38
Veto proposals, effect on future status of Yukon, 2418
Correctional service
Incidence of tuberculosis in Ontario penitentiaries, government
position, 1239, (r) 1550
Kingston Prison for Women, brutal conduct of emergency
response team towards inmates, government position.
1253
Referral of tuberculosis problem in penitentiaries to Minister of
Health, government position, 1239-40, (r) 1550-51
Crow's Nest Pass, elimination of crow rate, government policy,
621-22
Customs, Canadian pilots, clearance procedures at Mirabel Airport,
914, (r) 1187-88
Defence
Acquisition of nuclear-powered submarines, government position,
1634
Lobbyists involved in acquisition, request for particulars, 1634,
1993, (r) 2367
Protection of Arctic sovereignty, govemment position, 1634
Reasons for acquisition of Upholder Class Submarines,
government position, 1633-34, (r) 2367
Safety of Sea King Helicopters. government position, 2069
See also National Defence
Delayed answers to oral questions, request for answers, 915
Economy
Creation of jobs for women through infrastructure program,
request for particulars, 1716, (r) 2074-75
Expected increase in debt service costs, government position,
1109
Failure of infrastructure program to create jobs, government
position. 1714-15
Market factors affecting foreign investors. government position.
1225
Partisan nature of the Opposition in the Senate. 1226
Possibility of accelerated deficit reduction. government position.
1226-27

Questions (oral)-Cont'd
Economy-Cont'd

Possible redemption of Canada Savings Bonds, government
position, 1109
Target for reduction of deficit. government position, 1224-25
Unacceptable level of unemployment, government position,
1713-14
Underground labour market, loss of tax dollars, government
policy, 98, (r) 220-21
Elections Canada
Electoral Boundaries Commissions, introduction of new
legislation, request for pre-study, 1039
Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Act, introduction of
suspension bill, effect on commissions in each province,
321
Electoral boundaries readjustment process
Extension of deadline, request for particulars, 2251-52
Transmission of maps by Chief Electoral Officer, request for
information, 1891
Readjustment of electoral boundaries based on 1991 census,
government position, 1039
Electoral Boundaries Commission
Revisions to riding boundaries, status of hearings, 284
Suspension of operation under proposed legislation
Government position, 251-52
Proposed use of closure, govemment position, 283-84
Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Suspension bill, future of
bill C-18, 516-17
Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Suspension bill, 1994,
constituencies, provinces and municipalities, process of
consultation, government position, 358-59
Employment, fluctuations in job creation statistics, situation in
Quebec, government position, 2401-02
Energy
Proposed carbon tax, government policy, 48
Environment
Automation of weather stations, reliability of technology,
government position, 1303, (r) 1986
Cancellation of report on state of environment, possibility of
discussion on sustainable development at G-7 summit,
goverment position, 1743, (r) 2201
Changes to weather reporting service adversely affecting rural and
isolated areas, government position, 1843. (r) 2557-58
Federal management of radioactive waste material, report of
Auditor General of Canada, government position, 1663,
(r) 2072-73
Greenhouse gas reduction strategy, failure to reach agreement,
government position, 1239, (r) 1304
International Joint Commission, recommendations on toxicity
reduction in Great Lakes
Government position, 135, (r) 308
Guidelines for detection apparatus, government position, 356,
(r) 456
Manitoba, oriented strand board plant, possibility of hearing
before independent review panel, government position,
1549, (r) 1694
Oriented Strandboard plant in Saskatchewan, extension of
environmental review to cover downstream effects in
Manitoba, government position, 1633
Oriented Strandboard plants, cumulative effect of harvesting on
boreal forests, government position, 1633
Proclamation of Environmental Assessment Act, status of draft
regulations, government timetable, 286, (r) 402
Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, establishment of national
standards. government position. 2319
Review of Canadian Environmental Protection Act. report of
Commons committee, government position, 2403-04
Sagkeeng First Nation, effect of pulp mill pollution, government
position. 218. (r) 454-55
Si. Lawrence Vision 2000. reduction of pollution, government
position. 304, (r) 555

Questions (oral)-Cont'd
Environment-Cont'd
Study of low-level military flights in Labrador, government

response to criticism of process, 848, (r) 1205
Estimates, 1994-95
Atlantic Canada Opportunities Agency, review of activities by
National Finance Committee, 165
Unemployment insurance cuts, plight of lobster fishermen. 166,
(r) 221
Ethics Counsellor
Desirability of independent counsellor reporting to Parliament.
government position 2382
Existence of Joint Committee on Code of Conduct. 2383
Joint Committee on Code of Conduct, relevance to
parliamentarians, 2383-84
Expo 2005
Announcement of host city, government position, 1574, 1707
Selection of site, govemment position, 1926
External relations. commitment of France to continuing nuclear
testing. government position, 1763, (r) 2048-49
Federal-provincial relations
Administration of infrastructure program. government policy,
95-96, (r) 138
Agreement on internal trade, nature and timeliness of
amendments to bill, government position. 2210
Conduct of security services in quebec, government operations,
1742-43
Effect of enforcement provisions of agreement on internal trade
trade.
interprovincial
bill on
implementation
government position. 1715, (r) 1992-93
Effect of federal policy on pharmaceutical industry in Quebec.
398
Finance
Duplication of programs with provinces, government position.
874-75
Fiscal program update, possibility of tax increases, government
position, 874
Firearms bill
Availability to other provinces of similar arrangements, costs to
taxpayers, government position, 2232, (r) 2351
Funding arrangements with government of Nova Scotia, request
for particulars, 2232. (r) 2351
Firearms legislation
Criteria and selection process for appearing as witness before
committee, government position, I548
Refusai by House of Commons committee to hear testimony of
renowned firearms expert, government position, 1548.
(r) 1617-18
Statement attributed to Prime Minister in caucus on voting of
dissenting members, government position. 1777
Fisheries
Aid for laid-off workers under the Atlantic Groundfish Strategy,
request for statistics, 1716
Atlantic Groundfish Program, change in benefits, government
position, 304, (r) 435
Collapse of Atlantic fishery, longer-term provision for laid-off
workers under the Atlantic Groundfish Strategy,
government position, 1715-16, (r) 1928-29
North Atlantic fishery
Presence of Spanish warships accompanying fishing vessels,
government position. 1359
Significance of presence of Spanish warships in relation to
negotiations, 1360
Presence of Canadian naval vessels on Grand Banks. government
position. 1359
Support for vessels during moratorium, 334. (r) 424
Fisheries and oceans
Cuts in departmental budget. demise of Winnipeg freshwater
science teams. governnent position. 1842. (r) 2080-81
Establishment of Industry Renewal Boards. government position
on buy-back of quotas and licences. 305-06, (r) 424

Questions (oral)-Conit'd
Fisheries and oceans-Cont'd
Extension of jurisdiction beyond 200-mile limit, government
policy, 94-95, (r) 137-38
Memorandum of understanding to transfer freshwater science
teams to Department of Environment, government
position, 1842
Timeliness of annual department report. govemment policy, 2366
Foreign affairs
Economic assistance to Middle East, government position, 501,
(r) 586-87
G-7 Halifax summit. request for tabling of pertinent documents,
1839-40
G-7 summit in Halifax, position paper not submitted for
parliamentary debate, government position, 1741
Human rights issues, government policy, 285-86
Military intervention in Haiti and in Burma, government policy.
628-29, (r) 851
Negotiations towards inclusion of Chile in NAFTA, request for
progress report, 1960. (r) 2114
New directives on foreign service travel directives, request for
particulars, 1681, (r) 2073-74
Projected cost of G-7 summit in Halifax, request for details,
1761-62
Proposed visit of Chairman Arafat of Palestine, requirement for
ministerial permit, government position, 501-02, (r) 587
Remarks of Senator Stollery on Mexico
Possibility of Canada's withdrawal from NAFTA, government
position, 1522, (r) 2048
Request for answer. 1706
Response from Mexican Embassy, government position, 1522
Report of Auditor General on foreign service travel directives.
govemment position. 168 1, (r) 2073
Request for newly appointed Ambassador to Israel and Cyprus to
appear before committee. 1983-84
Return to democracy in Nigeria, efforts of department, 1744,
(r) 2075-76
Sales abroad of Candu reactors, request for status report on
environmental and financial concerns, 1777, (r) 2077-78
Sierra Leone, proposed national elections. contributions to support
fund, govemment position, 2466-67
Forestry, Clayoquot Sound
Grant by CIDA to protest group. 873, (r) 987
Grant by CIDA to protest group against logging. 882
Government position. request for answer, 935
Goods and Services Tax
Application on reading materials, 848-49
Application on reading materials and eye glasses, position of
govemment leader, 856-57
Failure of government to abolish tax, timing for resignation of
Deputy Prime Minister, 1532-33
Forecast for elimination or replacement, government position,
2441
Removal of tax on reading materials, government position,
1213-14, 2442
Govemment, progress of legislation, government policy, 42-43
Government services, refusal of airlines to negotiate discounts with
Government of Canada, 1709, (r) 1992
Health
Bovine growth hormone
Evaluation of health risk. representations from United States,
government position. 2111-12, (r) 2385
Link between IGF-a and breast cancer. government position.
1927, (r) 2081
Canada Health Act. plan to amend. government position. 1598
Centres of Excellence for Women's Health
Nature and funding, governmuent position. 136. (r) 221
position, 2100
ioverinment
Outcome of site selection process.
Classification of tobacco as hazardous product, governinment
position. 43-45

INDEX
Questions (oral)--Cont'd

Health-Conrt'd
Closer control on tobacco products, govemment position, 1804.
(r) 2079-80
Control of sale of tobacco products, need for legislation.
government position. 2350
Controlled drugs and substances bill. required amendments.
government position, 2118-19
HIV infection in women, reported increase in rate, application of
discretionary portion of departmental budget,
government position, 1213, (r) 1343-44
Implementation of experts' report on plain packaging of tobacco
products. consultations by Minister. government
position, 1715
New legislation to curtail tobacco consumption, government
position, 2233
Reorganization of blood supply system
Government position. 1803, (r) 2078
Timing of final report of Krever Commission, government
position, 2365
Report on tobacco packaging, request for particulars, 1663
Tobacco Demand Reduction Strategy, distribution of study on
plain packaging, govemment position. 1521. (r) 1555
Use of bovine growth hormone somatotropin, delay in
investigation of human health risks, government
position, 1840, (r) 2080
Human resources
Discussions with provinces on manpower training, government
position, 1574, (r) 2046
Review of social programs, 856
Human Resources Development
British Columbia, imposition of waiting period for payments
under Canada Assistance Plan, suspension of transfer
payments. government position, 2417-18, (r) 2609-10
Child care, federal offer of funding
Comments in media, government position. 2503
Discussions with provincial finance ministers, government
position, 2503
Fiscal inequality among provinces, 2502
Lack of consultation with provinces. government position, 2503
Provincial cuts to programs, government position, 2501-02
Restrictions on categories of providers, government position.
2504
Inclusion of representatives of East Coast fishermen on social
security task force. 46
Installation of telephone communications network, 422, (r) 850
National literacy secretariat. importance of program continuity
and volunteer participation, government position.
1214-15
Professional training, domain of provinces, government position,
45-46, (r) 220
Proposed source of funding for creation of child care spaces,
government position, 2119
Recommendation of committee report concerning literacy,
government position, 1211
Reform of unemployment insuracne system, guaranteed annual
income as part of package. government position, 2349
Reported illiteracy rate in Canada, government position, 1183-85
Request for financial aid for fisheries organizations, 47
Social Policy White Paper, government position, 96, (r) 286-87
Unemployment insurance reform
Correspondence between federal and New Brunswick
governments. request for tabling of documentation.
2419
Correspondence between federal and Nova Scotia
governments. request for tabling of documentation.
2420
Division of responsibility for job training. government position.
2404

Questions (oral)-Cont'd
Human Resources Development-Cont'd
Meeting between representatives of federal and New
Brunswick governments, request for tabling of
documentation. 2403
Program for study of legislation, govemment position, 2506-07
Relationship to redesign of overall social programs,
government policy. 2420
Violence against women, importance of literacy, government
position, 1186
Human rights
Arms trading with transgressor nations, government policy, 1376
Arrest of activist in China, goverment position. 1983, (r) 2155
Campaign promise of annual reports, government position. 2506
Commitment to intervention with transgressor countries,
government position, 1684. (r) 2113
Compensation to Canadians for past injustices. 1167, (r) 1342
Conflicting statements by Foreign Affairs Minister, request for
clarification, 1681-82
Discussions with Turkey on sale of aircraft, govemment position,
1376-77
Establishment of Canadian Race Relations Foundation,
government position, 1804, (r) 2080
Establishment of Senate committee on affirmative action. request
for response to statement, 2208
Further incarceration of Chinese dissident, government position,
2491, 2504-06
Hiring by Canadian International Development Agency of former
Guatemalan General as consultant, government
position, 1634, (r) 1685
Imposition of embargoes and sanctions against transgressor
countries, government policy, 2366
Indonesia, upcoming visit by Prime Minister, discussions of
abuses in East Timor, government position. 2506
Manufacture and use of land mines, government policy, 2319
Nigeria
Execution of Ogoni activists. possible restoration of democracy,
government position, 2318-19
Possibility of imposing embargoes on transgressor countries,
government position, 1682, (r) 2113
Promised amendments to act, govemment position, 1804
Ratification of Human Rights Convention of Organization of
American States, government position, 2069-70
Delayed answer, 2091, (r) 2155
Relationship to aid and trade, government policy. 1716-17,
(r) 2114
Relationship to trade, request for debate, 1693
Reports on record of various countries compiled by Foreign
Affairs Department, govemment policy. 1377, (r) 1805
Request for answer, 1717
Request for debate on human rights and trade. government
position, 914
Sale of arms to Thailand, govemment position, 1087, (r) 1190
Three Gorges Dam Project
Displacement of Chinese citizens, government position,
913-14, (r), 1088-89
Financial assistance, goverment position. 914
Vigilance towards situations developing in other countries,
goverment position, 2505-06
Visit of federal commissioner to China, remarks reported in
media, government position. 2490
Immigration
Appointment of impartial members to Immigration and Refugee
Board. government position. 951-52
Capping of family reunification quotas. government position. 952
Deportation of member of alleged terrorist organization,
declaration of Federal Court of Canada, 2250-51
Immigration and Refugee Board
Qualifications of new executive director. government position.
1359. (r) 1551

Questions (oral)

&t i'd

Immigration-Coinr'd
Review of policy and appoiiiiînent proccss. government
position. 1097-98
Reduction in numbers of immigrants, government position, 951
Reduction of business class compontent, government position. 46.
114-15
Income Tax Act. Federal Court of Appeal. decision to strike down
child support provisions, government position. 453
Indian affairs
Cigarette smuggling on native reserves. 47
Clean-up of Canadian National train wreck debris on Birdtail
Sioux Reserve. government position. 1452-53. (r) 1684
Contraband alcohol on reserves, 96-97
Legal action against Canadian National Railway. governmenî
position. 1453, (r) 1684
Status of negotiations on Oka. role of chief federal negotiator.
512-13
Industry, science and technology research. cuts to budget. timing for
release of study. government policy. 2350-5 1. (r> 2609
Infrastructure program
Cutback in government spending. effect on employment.
government position. 356-57, (r) 850
Effect on construction industry. government position. 2234
Financing for Kanata Palladium. government position. 335
Financing of professional sports infrastructure. government
position. 335. (r) 849
Formula resolved among levels of governiment. 399
Government spending. effect on employment. renovations to
athletic faciities in Edmonton and Calgary, 359. (r> 850
Source of funds for job creation. government position. 400-01
lntcrgovernmental affairs
Consultations witb provinces on matters concerning fiscal
transfers. 1598-99
Possibility of agreement on professional development. 985
InternaI Economy. Budgets and Administration. policy on
administration of inter-parliamentary activîties. equalîty
between Houses of Parliament. 1134-36
International relations. human rights. government policy. 606.
(r) 834
International trade
Agreement on participation of provinces. government position.
1574
Dispute with European Union on newsprînt. government position,
1776. (r) 2076
lPearson Airport Agreements
Meeting of minister with British counterpart. request foi,
particulars. 1586. (r) 1779
Meeting of minister with British counterpart ai G-7 summît in
Halifax, govemment position. 1762
Relations with European Union, impact on local industries.
government position. 16(0, (r) 2071-72
Reprieve from planned embargo on Canadian furs. possibility of
banning leg-hold traps. government position. 2365
Sale in Russia of United States pharmaceuticals. Canadian
representations. government position. 216-17
Status and acceptance of NAFTA. government position. 110- Il
Justice
Appointment of sister of Minister of Transport to Court of
Queen's Bench of New Brunswick. governimenî
position. 1301
Autbority for statement on politîcal non-involvement in police
investi gations. govemment position. 2465-66
Criminal Code. proposed revisions to accomimodate cultural
diflerences. 914-15
Fiiearrns leg-islation. cli icacy ot' iresearch of Minisier. goerflmiefl
position. 2272
Fiieaims registration hilI. as ailabilits of' copie', Io senators.
gos ci nmcint postin 121S
Gun conirol leg-islation

Questions (oral> Coiit'd
Justice Cooi'd
Avowal by the provinces not 10 finance reg-istration.
govcrnment position. 1662. (r) 1988
Comments of Prime Mînister on provincial responsibiliîy,
request for clarification. 1662-63, (r) 1989-90
Consultation with provinces prior to introduction of legislation.
govemmeni position. 1662. (r) 1988-89
Fînancial self-sufficiency of registration program. government
position, 1662, (r) 1989
Impact of gun control leg-islation on rural society. government
position. 1-358-59
Minîster's view of efficacy of jailing non-violent young offenders.
application of same principle to transg-ressors ag-ainst
firearms legislation. government position, 2271-72
Parole supervision of high risk offenders. government position.
985. (r) Il188-89
Political non-involement in police investigations. statement of
minister to media. govcrnment position. 2465
Re-establishment of Law Reform Commission. legistative agenda,
2507-08
Sale of Airbus airerat to Air Canada
Alleg-ed conspiracy to defraud federal govemment
Approach to Swiss government for information. auîhoriîy for
procedure followed. government position. 2487-88
Approval for letter to, Swiss authorities. governiment position.
2-247-48
Departmental letter to Swîss authorities
Minister's involvement. 2348-49
Source of leak to media. 2318
Equalîty of citîzens before the law, request for confirmation.
2250
Knowledge of govcrnment ministers. request for particulars,
2466
Knowledge 0f Minister. government position. 2267-67
Libel action by former Prime Minister, source of fundîng for
glovemment counsel. 2466
Motivation for RCMP investigation, governmenî position.
2248-49
Motivation of minîster in instituting inquinies. 2489
Nuinhers of RCMP investigations publicized. requesi for
particulars. 2250. (r) 2420-21
RCMP investigative procedures, request for particulars.
2249-50
Rank of RCMP officers engag-ed in investigation. 2349-50.
(r) 2558
Request for apoîogcy to Govemment of Switzerland. 2266
Request for tabling of letter to Swîss authorities. 2250
Request for answer. 2317-18
Stage of treaty with Switzerland aitlime of request.
govemment position. 2488-89, (r) 2610
Legal and Constitutional Affairs. schedule of work of the committee.
position of chaiiiiari. 2364-65
Literacy
Authenticity of kits released. govemment position. 1891-92
Future nîcasures to be instituted. government position. 2439-40
Making Scenes Betwcen the Lines pamphlet. targetted adult
market. government position. 1894-95
OECD international survey. link between aduît literacy and
employmcent. government position. 2438
OECD international survey, possibility of fedieral-provincial
conference. govemnment position. 2443
Request for kits for senators. 1895
Visibility of liîeracy secretariat. government position. 2439
Mdanitoba. federal cnvironmcntal asscssment of forestry procts.
glos rnmntn position. 24(05
MeIti epolitan Toronto
National Foirunm on Health. lack of i-cpieseniation of region.
Lo\crnilc ni position. 903
Proposai s tfor Social RelIornm. I ack ol rcprcsciiiaiion on ssoik i ne
gIroup. gos erninent position. 902-(3,. r) 1228-29

INDEX
Questions (oral)-Cont'd

Ministry. lack of focus of Cabinet ministers. 666
National defence
Canadian Airborne Regiment
Inquiry into conduct, possibility of reinstatement. 1253-54
Reasons for disbandment. 1356-57, (r) 1986-87
Closure of Le Collège Militaire Royal de St-Jean. government
position. 951
Closure of Royal Military College at St-Jean. 513-14. 602-03,
620-21, (r) 668, 669. 670-71
Related expenditures. request for information, 630
Request for answers, 629-30. 666
Request for information, 603
Compensation for cancelled EH-101 contracts
Government position. 1503. (r) 1554-55
Request for particulars, qu. 1713, (r) 2074
Consequences of cuts to transfer payments to provinces,
government position. 1254-55
Disbandment of Canadian Airborne Regiment. difference of
opinion between Minister and Chief of Defence Staff.
government position, 2068
Disciplinary practices in Canadian Armed Forces, government
position, 1185-86, (r) 1473
Disposition of Royal Military College at St-Jean, government
position, 503-04, (r) 671-71
Effects of closure of St-Jean Military College, 136, (r) 308
Future of peacekeeping forces in former Yugoslavia, government
position. 1586-87
Initiative of NATO concerning peacekeeping in Bosnia,
participation by Canadian Armed Forces, government
position, 1741
Inquiry into activities of Canadian Airborne Regiment,
government position, 1185, 1357, (r) 1987
Length of tours of peacekeeping forces, request for information,
1375, (r) 1552
Maritime and aerial surveillance and control. enhancement of
Arctic capabilities, government policy, 2366
Peacekeeping costs charged to departmental budget, government
position, 1213. (r) 1342-43
Peacekeeping in Bosnia
Ability of troops to withdraw from Visoko if recalled,
government position, 1839. 1840-41
Participation in UN rapid deployment force. government
position. 1761
Possibility of increasing size of force, government position,
1742, (r) 2155
Request for parliamentary debate on increase in size of force,
government position, 1743-44, (r) 2091-92
Status of Canadians held hostage, possible discussion of set-up
of UN force at G-7 summit, government position.
1778-79
Status of troops detained in Visoko, government position.
1838-39
Peacekeeping in former Yugoslavia, withdrawal of troops,
government policy, 1708
Peacekeeping operations in former Yugoslavia, demise of
Canadian Airborne Regiment, 1374
Possibility of purchase of nuclear-powered vessels. government
position, 1341
Proportion of non-military items in departmental budget,
government position. 995. (r) 1240
Request for answer. 1213
Proposed cut-backs to defence expenditures, government position.
114
Purchase of Upholder Class submarines. cost to government.
1340. (r) 1551
Reduction of Canadian forces capability. government position.
359-60. (r) 435-36
Restructuring of Canadian Armed Forces reserve
Government response. 1519
Request for answer. 1502

Questions (oral)-Cont 'd

National defence-Cont'd
Request for terms of reference of commission. 1374
Royal Military College at St-Jean. decrease in recruitment,
goverment position. 1357-58
St-Jean Military College, effects of proposed closure on maritime
students, 216, (r) 309
Search and Rescue Helicopter Replacement Program
Nature of reduction in capability, request for particulars,
2231-32

Proportion of Canadian content in contract bids, request for
particulars. 2232, (r) 2558
Rationale for choice. 2231
Request for tabling of statement of requirements and report on
search and rescue capability requirements. 2363-64
Statement of requirements, request for answer, 2463, (r) 2559
Search and rescue, replacement of Sea King and Labrador
helicopter fleets
Government position. qu, 1098, (r) 1191
Training of First Mechanical Brigade for NATO exercises,
government position. 1741-42
See also Defence

National election
Red Book commitment to appoint ethics commissioner,
government position, 283
National finance
Amount of deficit, government position, 302-03, 323-24
Amount of deficit for 1993-94, government position, 552
Bank of Canada
Pay increases to officials. 1984
Salary increases for officials, government position, 1959-60
Bank of Canada rate, effect on interest rates, 252. (r) 423-24
Control of debt and deficit, government position, 1925
Cutbacks in transfer payments to western provinces, government
position. 401
Debt and deficit management. evaluation of International
Monetary Fund, govemment position. 2464-65
Deficit reduction plan, government position, 514-15, 551-52
Downgrading of government's credit rating, government position,
239, (r) 324-25
Goods and Services Tax
Status of intergovernmental negotiations, govemment position,
2402
Timing of resignation of Deputy Prime Minister, 2402
Undertaking of Prime Minister on deadline on replacement,
government position, 2403
Increase in bank rate
Deficit reduction plan, request for fiscal update, 689-91
Government position, 630, 666-67, 691-92
Interest rate. govemment policy. 310
International Monetary Fund. objectives and methods of deficit
reduction, govemment position, 2443
Job creation, government policy, 1925-26, (r) 2050
Meeting of federal and provincial ministers. discussion of possible
national debt management plan, government position,
2463-64
Old age security, undertaking of Prime Minister during
referendum. government position, 2403
Reduction in deficit announced by minister, ramifications for
transfer payments to provinces, government position,
2440-41
Reduction in post-secondary education financing. 667. (r) 851
Report of Auditor General, Iong-term management of debt and
deficit. government position. 2265
Report of Auditor General on national debt. govemment position,
2111
The deficit. budgetary and political risks. effect on foreign
investnent. government position, 322-23
National Forum on Healtb
Confusion and delay within governnent, 515-16. (r) 850-51
Request for information, 848

Questions (oral) Goiz; 'd
National Forum on Health-Coi'd
Request for particulars on expenses. budgets and contracts. 1453.
(r) 1553-54
National Round Table on the Environment and the Economy.
nonrepresentation of New Brunswick, 605
Request for answer. 671
National security
ProposaI to strike special committee
Clarification of government position, 881-82
Government position. 875-87, 903-04, (r) 1042
Request for answer. 1132-33
National unity
Constitutional amendments, request for tablîng of documents
prepared by New Brunswick officiais. 2442
Indian Aftaîrs. document on post-referendum policy purportedly
prepared by officiaI. government position. 2382
Presence of aboriginal peuples at Quebec Round. governiment
position. 2382-83
Quebec referendum, possible reduction in elderly benefits.
government position. 2232
Quebec situation foilowing referendum. government policy. 2167
Natural resources. new federal provincial silviculture agreement.
governmenî position, 1802-03, (r) 2078
New Brunswick
Share ot patronage appointments. government position. 357
North Amenican Free Trade Agreement
Extension of agreement to include Chile. government position,
1708-09. (r) 2114
Inclusion of Chile. influence on existing agreement,.government
position. 1705-06, (r) 2114
North Atlantic Treaty Organization. respect of human rights as
condition of contînuin- membershîp. governiment
position. 1692-93, (r) 1992
Nova Scotia
Eftect of budget on Cornwallis Peacekeeping Training Centre.
governmenî position. 133-34
Industrial marine products. relocation oM'plant fromn North Sydney
to Amherst, possible delays in implementation of
decîsion. governiment position. 2349
Necessîty of peacekeeping training, government position. 113
Proposed peacekeeping training centre. gOovernment position. 620.
(r) 986
Status of peacekeeping training centre at CFB Cornwallis,
government position. 112-13
OfficiaI languages
Access of francophones to Internet network. 1651I 52
Report of commissioner
Quality of debate. govemment position. 334-35
Recommendation to discontinue bilingual bonus. government
position, 304-05
Org-anization for Economie Cooperation and Developmenî.
appointiieîit of Donald Johnston as Secretary-General.
length of term. government position. 996. (r) 1089
Parks Canada
User fées, governiment position. 875. 934. (r) 974-75, (r) 1168-69
Parliament
Program of legislation. government policy. 282-83
Pearson Airport Agreements, Special Senate Comnittee. request for
particulars of expendîtures on consultants. 2504
Post-secondary education
Canada Scholarships Program. effect of cuts. possibility of
replacement, government position. 1341 . (r) 1588
Canada Student Loans Program. impact on tederal funding.
govcrniment position. 605. )r) 835
Ellect ol cuis to social transteî paymients (in tjniversity enrolmnent.
1683. (0) 1990-91g

Effects of' withdra\val of lcdc ai tunding. go\ ci noient position.
333
Financin- ai ianecmnnt tor- qt[dent boan., Lo\ ci nent policy.
333. (r) 424

Questions (oral> Con; 'd
Post-secondaîy education-Cont'ci
Growth in revenue trom EPE transfers tax points. possibility of
transter te, institutions. 934-35, (r) 1377-78
Increases in unîversity tuîtion fees in Newtoundland. government
position. 1532, (r) 1589
Reinstatement or replacement of Canada Scholarships Fund.
govemment position. 1683-84
Precinets of Parliament
Authority tii initiate pruject, 1132
Cancellation of East Block Tunnel projeet. request for
information. 1549. (r) 1694
Central heating problemrs, request for remedy, 1168, (r) 1305
Condition of carpet in Senate Chamber 1728-29
Consultation with Senate before undertaking further work.
government position. 1167
Locking of East Block doors. governiment position. 1616
Proposed renovations. government position. 452-53. (r) 974
Proposed renovations to East and Centre Blocks, government
position, 306-08. (r) 974
Request for definition. 1168. (r) 1304-OS
Role of'Speaker as chairmen of Internai Eeonomy Committees of
both Houses. 1168
Tunnel between East Block and Centre Block
Appropriateness of expenditure. government position. 1131
Request for information. 1166-67. (r) 1535
Prince Edward Island
Fixed lînk. change in design of bridge. envir-onmental assessment
review process. government position. 185-86
Public Works
Cancellation of building contract in Dorval, Quebec, substitution
of rentaI agreement. request for particulars. 1586.
(r) 1717-18
Cancellation of proljeets within parliamnentary precîncîs.
glovemment position. 1215-16, (r) 1536
Consultation with InternaI Economy Committee on cancellation
of project. 1215. (r) 1536
Decision of Minister to build new federal building in
Sault Ste. Marie. request for details of' contraci.
1186-87. (r) 1535-36
Details of costs involved in cancellation of project, 1215. (r) 1536
Diversion of' funds from designated Nova Scotia Highway
Projeet. abuse of prîvilege by minîster governiment
position. 1709
Harbourfront. Toronto, closing due to funding cuits. government
position. 1533-34
Reconstruction of East Block Tunnel. status of projeet. 1215,
(r) 1536
Renovation of East Block, Senate input, government position.
187. (r) 972-74
Renovation of windows at Lester B. Pearson Building.
cancellation of contract. governiment position. 1532,
(r) 1694
Quebec
Distinct society motion. leg-al opinion sought on interpretation of
wordinga, government position, 2491
Distinct society resolution. comments by the chair of the Standing
Coînmîîtee on Canadian Heritage. government position.
2539-40
lmpending election and referendum, action for national unîty.
governmeni position. 111
Prime Minister's proposais. means of' gaining necessary consent
of provinces. government position. 2363
Regional development
Application of similar rules in aIl prov inces, government position,
1183. (it 1377
Rev enue
Capital -a i ns elciion. di ssxcm mat ion of inIformat ion t o public.
icquesi loi- studics on ellectix cness ofincasuic. 1237
Inconme tax. capital g-ains clection. ci lect on seniors, I1237.
(r) 147-4-75

INDEX
Questions (oral)-Cont'd
Revenue Canada
Amount of export tax paid by tobacco manufacturers, net losses to
federal treasury, government position, 1058, (r) 1190
Changes to excise tax on tobacco products, inequality of treatment
of provinces, government position, 995-96, (r) 1169-70
Rules of the Senate
Infringement of Rule 26. 188
Saskatchewan. appointment of Lieutenant-Governor, nature of
appointment, government position, 321-22
Science, research and development. tax credits for research and
development, 994, (r) 1169
Senate
Absence of government leader, 1615
Absence of government leader from chamber, 2557
Amendments to Bill C-22. refusal by Minister to appear before
Senate Committee, 1299-300
Distribution of Debates and Minutes to Members of the House of
Commons, 550-51
House of Commons, changes to method of reporting committee
proceedings, availability to senators of computer link,
govemment position. 1651
Pearson International Airport, possibility of judicial inquiry,
government position, 1300-31
Prince Edward Island, appointment of new senator, govemment
position. 1453
Proposal for debate on foreign affairs and national defence,
request for commitment, 552-53
Public statements by Minister of Transport regarding motives of
certain senators, qu. 1283-84, 1285, 1286
Position of Leader of the Government. qu, 1298-99
Remarks by Minister of Transport, request for clarification,
873-74
Status of Senator Kinsella, 2091
Value of independent senators, government position, 2092
Social affairs
Amount of funding available for child care strategy,
government position, 1375-76, (r) 1553
Implementation of national child care strategy, government
position, 1375, (r) 1552-53
Reform of child support systems, government position, 1357,
(r) 1551-52
Solicitor General
Efficacy of security arrangements at residence of Prime
Minister
Government position. 2200
Request for results of investigation. 2270-71
Review of security arrangements at official residences,
publication of results, government position, 2200
RCMP marketing contract with Disney Corporation. request for
particulars, 1958-59, (r) 2082-83
South Africa
Free and democratic elections, monitoring by Canadian
delegation, 399-400
Status of Women, request for breakdown of program spending for
current and next fiscal years. 1376, (r) 1503
Tourism
Effect of budget cuts, government position, 284-85
Training Initiatives Program. amount of funds available from
Human Resources Development. government position,
1633, (r) 1695
Transport
Abandonment of holdings on Partridge Island, New Brunswick.
government position. 1534. (r) 1617
Abolition of Atlantic Region Freight Assistance, possibility of
notice to stakeholders. 1212, (r) 1473-74
Application of International Civil Aviation Organization
Standards at smaller airports. government position,
1520. (r) 1685
Atlantic Region Freight Assistance Program. request for impact
analysis, governnent position. 1057

Questions (oral)--Cont 'd
Transport-Cont'd
Request for answer, 1167
Automated navigational and weather systems. request for
documentation, govemment position, 1165, (r) 2070-71
Automated Weather Observation Systems, Report of Senate
Committee. request for response from minister. 2233-34
Condition of St. Lawrence Seaway. government policy. 97. (r) 166
Destaffing of lightstations in British Columbia
Environmental impact assessment, government position, 1040,
(r) 1189
Request for judicial inquiry, government position, 1133-34.
(r) 1191
Existence of any impediment to redevelopment of Pearson
Airport, government position, 1303
Failure of minister to properly brief Prime Minister on reports
respecting Pearson Airport Agreements, government
position, 1488
Federal-Provincial Strategic Highway Improvement Program
Canada-Nova Scotia Agreement. diversion of funds to Cape
Breton Project, government position, 1650. (r) 2046
Discussions between ministers on diversion of funds from Nova
Scotia Highway Project, request for particulars, 1660,
(r) 2046
Diversion of funds to Cape Breton Project, possible interpretation
by Auditor General of Canada, government position.
1650
Fulfilment of Red Book promises, govemment position. 1661-62
Introduction of toll booths on Trans-Canada Highway, 1661,
(r) 2046
Nova Scotia
Diversion of funds from designated project
Alternate methods of funding, government position, 1680,
(r) 2047
Knowledge of transaction by Prime Minister, government
position, 1679-80, (r) 2047
Diversion of funds to projects not covered by agreements,
government position, 1680-81, (r) 2047
Freezing of funds to await outcome of inquiry of Auditor
General, govemment position, 1708, (r) 2048
Request for answers. 1926
Restoration of funding to designated project
Request for answer, 1961
Request for update, 1690-91, 1926, (r) 1991-92, (r) 1993
Return of funds to designated project, government position.
1650-51
Return of funds to designated highway project, government
position, 1662, (r) 1988
Policy on diversion of funds to undesignated projects. request for
particulars, 1682-83, (r) 1990
Propriety of intervention by Minister of Public Works,
governiment position, qu, 1660-61
Report of Auditor General on diversion of funds
Government position, 2266
Pertinent documents tabled. 2559
Request for tabling of pertinent documents, 2266
Importance of passage of Bill C-22 to development of Pearson
International Airport, government position, 1285
Institution of public inquiry, govemment position, 1472
Merger of Canadian Coast Guard with Department of Fisheries and
Oceans, govemment position, 2112, (r) 2252
Necessary repairs to Pearson International Airport. government
position. 187-88, (r) 287
Nova Scotia. funds for Wentworth Valley Highway Project.
government position. 1548-49. (r) 1709-10
Pearson Airport Agreements
Authorship of departmental report. request for clarification,
1469-70. (r) 1534
Definition of legislative solution. government position. 1471
Discrepancies in Nixon Report. government position. 1520

Questions (oral)-Cuiîit'I
Pearson Airport Agreements-Coni'd
Discussion held by members of Liheral election campaign
committee. government position. 1491
Evîdence of' Mr. Matthews before Senate committee. government
position. 2100
Extent of knowiedge of Mr. Nixon ai time of review. government
position. 1488
Function of' Prime Minister ai meeting with Matthews Group,
1530
Implications of aileged invoivement of Prime Minister, request for
clarification. 1472
Instructions to Mr. Nixon on his mandate to review. government
position. 1470. (r) 1537
Leg-isiative solution. request for particulars. 1489
Leg-isiative solution to dispute. governiment position. 1587-88
Meeting of Prime Minister with Matthews Group. request for
details. 1519
Personai knowledge of Leader of Government on policy proposai.
1490-91
Possible revîsion of report of Robert Nixon, governiment Position.
1502
Public inquîîy. government position. 1530
Redevelopment ot Terminais i and 2. request for information.
147 1. (r) 1537
Refusai of minister to appear before Senate committee.
government position. 1519
Request for appearance of minister before Senate committee.
i521
Requesi for copies of' ail materiai or information on which
Mr. Nixon based bis report. 1492
Request foi copy of stamped receîpt notation on Mr. Nixon's
report. 1502
Request for judîcial inquiry. government position. 1489
Request for public inquiry. governiment position. 901-02
Requesi foi tablîng of' Iawyers' time dockets relating to, meeting
wiîh Matthews Group. 1501-02
Transport Canada study. request tor partîculars. 1491. (r) 1538
Verbal statements of Minister of Transport. request for written
confirmation. 1470-71. (r) 1534-35
Pearson International Airpori
Cancellation of lease agreement. 1040-41, (r) 1169
Cancellation of leases preventîng. redevelopment of Terminais I
and 2. governiment position. 1490. (r) 1535
Commenîs of minîster on delay in renovations on Terminais 1
and 2. government position. 1585-86
Delay in redevelopment of Terminais I and 2, 1301-02
Government position. 1451-52. (r) 1536-37
Implications of aileged invoivement of Prime Minîster. 1057-58.
(r) 1136
Request for answer, 1111
Importance of passage of Bill C-22 on development. knowledge
of Robert Nixon, government position. 1451
Influence of government actions on atîracting future business.
145 1,(r) 1536
Motion to strike Special Committee to inquire into privatization
contracts. request for g-overnment response. 1529-30
Nominees to Canadian Airpori Authority. government position.
912-13. (r) 10 11- 12
See appendix. p. 1023
Possible negotiation of lease. government position. 985-86,
(r) 1012
Remaining impediments to redevelopment. 1132
Request for ansssers. 153 1
Request loi- particulaîs on revenue lîomi subleases. 1490
Ta nser of admni n istrat ion ici IocalI ai rpoi t au thortîy. natalo 'c
Icgal tmnpedimient. I15(X)-5I
Pearson InternnationalI Airport i edex clopmnîn. ai lcged i nso! cnieni of'
Prime Mînisîci. 1450-51
RZeqtiest for t urther answerc. 1165-66

Questions (oral)-Coit'd<
Pensions of Route Canada empioyees. deiay in resolution of dispute.
status of negotiations
Government position. 1727-28
Government response. 2090-91
Privatization of Canadian National. reopening of negotiations with
Canadian Pacifie. government position. 1255. (r) 1344
Proposed sale of Halifax shipyards. governînent position. 114.
(r) 221
Proposed study of Atlantic Canada freight rates. governiment
position. 553-54, (r) 834
Question of prîvîlege. 1492
Radio Canada International. invitation to, Minister of Foreign Affairs
and International Trade to, respond to Senate committee
report. 1227
Railways work stoppage
Longer term arrangements for dispute settlements. g-overnment
position. 1374
Status of negotiations at Canadian Pacifie Rail and VIA Rail.
1359-60
Relationship 0f Canadian Airport Authority to development of
Pearson International Airport, 913
Reiiahility of' Lahrador helicopters on search and l'escue missions,
govemment position. 604. (r) 836
Removal of emergency response capabiiity from smaller airports
Difference in standards of safety. government position. 1531-32
Governmenî position. 1520, (r) 1685
Repairs to, Ports of Halifax and Saint John, government position. 97
Search and rescue helicopter replacement program
Purchase of units without tender. governiment position. 2400.
(i) 2558
Status of EH- lOI contract
Governmenî position. 2320. (r) 2609
Nature of milestone payments. 2349. (r) 2609
Suîtabîiîty and safety of' replacement units. government position.
2401. (r) 2558
Search and rescue, replacement of Sea King and Labrador helicopter
fleets
Eftect of replacements on viability of Canadian Forces Base
Shearwater. performance standards for replacements,
1340. (r) 2071
Status of EH-101 contract. govemrment position, 2118
Search and rescue. replacement of Sea King helicopter fleet
Documents tabled. 603-04
Government position. 422, (r) 556. 453-54, (r) 585-86. 604.
(r) 836
Request for answer. 882
Strengthening national highway standards for truck safety.
guovemment position. 1520-21. (r) 1745
Timing of vote on motion to strike Speciai Committee. request for
response. 1530-31
Trans-Canada Highway
Federal-provincial agreements currently in force. request toi
particulars. 1680. (r) 1990
Proposed toil booths in Nova Scotia. government position.
1839. 1993
Underuîilized infrastructure ai Canadian ports. need for
proposed new berthage and cargo sheds in Minister's
rîdîng. 1472, (r) 1554
Transport and Communications
Directions to Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications
Commission on direct-to-home satellite distribution.
conîimenis of Minister ol' Canadian Her-itace.
005 erineni position. 1692
Marine salti. studv on mandate and statti ng ot lighistiions.
qUestionl foi ehairnnan. 954-55
Ti casury Boar d. possible aininenis te Memibers of Parihument
Retitin- Allowanccs Aet. gOsernmneni posiion. 10141

INDEX
Questions (oral)-Conrt'd
United Nations
Human rights in China. defeat of resolution, request for copy of
text. 2211
Nuclear non-proliferation treaty, vote on reaffirmation,
government position. 1599, (r) 1636-37
Peacekeeping in Bosnia. participation in rapid reaction force.
government position. 1802
Possible changes to application of veto, govemment policy, 1802,
(r) 2049
Resolution to halt nuclear testing
Government objection to wording in text, request for
particulars, 2234
Request for copy of offending text, 2209
Withdrawal of co-sponsorship. government position. 2208-09
Veterans affairs
Aboriginal veterans. request for action on report of Standing
Senate Committee, government position, 1728
Veterans Independence Program, qualification of veterans, 222
Veterans Appeal Board, Order in Council appointment, government
position, 554
Western Economic Diversification Canada, report of Auditor
General, mandate of agency, government policy,
2268-69
Western grain transportation. Crow Rate, direct payment to farmers,
government position, 935. (r) 1188
Winter Olympics 2002. candidacy of Quebec City, 1762-63
Youth
Employment and training, student summer employment program,
355, (r) 504-05
Employment programs, govemment position, 504, (r) 765
Funding of training initiatives. government position. 356
Katimavik. reestablishment of program. 357-58
Questions on Order Paper, answers tabled
Agriculture Canada, federal expenditures on research. 1192
Agriculture Food Canada. 2083
Appointees to Immigration and Refugee Board, 1305
Atlantic Canada Opportunities Agency, report of Professor Savoie,
852
Canada Assistance Plan and established programs financing, levels
of entitlement and further details. 1843
Canada-Newfoundland Cooperation Agreement for Forestry
Development, 188
Canada 125, breakdown of distribution of medals, 852
Canada Pension Commission, exceptional incapacity allowance, 202
Canada Post Corporation, 2177
Canada Post Corporation, review by Price Waterhouse of contracts
in Sydney, Nova Scotia. request for particulars, 2493
Canadian Broadcasting Corporation
Annual report 1993/94, production costs, 1070
National Film Board. Telefilm Canada, commissioning of
production of war films, 1191
Canadian forces reserves, unemployment insurance amendments,
360
Canadian heritage, responsibilities in relation to Canadian veterans
and war memorials, 1206
Canadian Race Relations Foundation, particulars on establishment,
1695
Citizenship and Immigration Canada, 2083
Coastal Fisheries Protection Act, protection and management of
straddling stocks, 852
Composition of Advisory Board of Canadian Broadcasting
Corporation. 852
Composition of National Defence Minister's Advisory Group on
Defence Infrastructure. 1555
Contamination of National Parks and Historic Sites. 188
Department of Foreign Affairs and International Trade. details of
budgetary savings under 1995 budget plan, 1601
Employment. 2385
Estimates. 1994-95, reduction in services to veterans. 517

Questions (oral)-Cont'd
Ethics Counsellor. details of terms of reference. 852
Facilities at Banff National Park. 1555
Facilities at Prince Albert National Park. 1555
Facilities for employees at Jasper National Park. 1555
Facing the Challenge of Change: A Study of the Atlantic Economy,
details of costs and authors of study. 1206
Fisheries, species and configuration of fish exported to Japan, 1206
Fisheries and oceans, 1993 Canadian fish exports. 239
Govemment funding of Canadian Jewish Congress Archives, 1475
Health Canada, savings in 1995 Budget Plan, 1710
Human Resources Development
Details of budgetary savings under 1995 budgetary plan, 1637
Inclusion of regional representation on Advisory Group on
Working Time and Distribution of Work, 402
Human rights, termination of discussions with multicultural
organizations on redress for past injustices. 1695
Indian Affairs and Northern Development. savings in 1995 budget
plan. 1652
Industry Canada. details of budgetary savings under 1995 budget
plan. 1637
Industry, Trade and Commerce, Hibemia drilling modules, 310
Korean and Second World War. information from Soviet Archives
on disposition of armed forces personnel missing in
action. 996
Marine Atlantic. M.V. Bluenose ferry service, 2083
Merchant navy veterans
Canadian volunteer service medal. 202
Status of benefit claims. 505
Ministry of Canadian Heritage, funding levels for national sports
organization. I170
National Community Tree Foundation Program, 336
National Crime Prevention Council, details of operation and
composition. 1229
National Defence
Annual maintenance costs for Sea King helicopter fleet, 1112
Consultative Committee on Social Change. 138
Costs of cancelling helicopter program, 852
Details concerning status of airbus. 1637
Membership of Honours Policy Committee. 1652
Present structure and facilities of Canadian Forces training
system. 852
Testing of LSVW vehicles, 852
National Film Board, audit of president's expenses, 1229
Newfoundland
Canadian Forces Reserves, 310
Effects of federal infrastructure program. 239
1995 Budget Plan
Particulars on savings for Fisheries and Oceans, 1695
Particulars on savings respecting Department of Canadian
Heritage, 1695
Office of Prime Minister, status of car transportation, 310
Order-in-Council appointments to govemment boards and tribunals,
852

Order of Canada. status of Advisory Council. 310
Parks Canada
Location and composition of meetings, 1191
Meetings held by officials in Wolfville and Digby, Nova Scotia.
1652

Prince Edward Island
Transfer of Northumberland Strait Bridge office to Charlottetown,
851-52

Upgrading of Charlottetown Harbour facilities. 852
Request for answers. 1601
Revenue Canada. details of budgetary savings under 1995 budget
plan. 1601
Scotia Synfuels Project. grandfathering of investment tax credit. 996

Questions (oral) Con> 'd
Second World War. information from Soviet archives on Canadian
armed foi-ces personnel missîng in action ai Torgau.
1112
Solicitor General. cumulative total of firearms recovered by RCMP.
1206
Solicitor General of Canada. 2083
Superintendent of Bankruptcy. responsibilities regarding NSC Diesel
PowerîInc.. 1601
The Budget Plan. program funding. 1170
The Valour and the Horror. amount and terms of loans to producers.
1206
Transport, Strategic Highway Improvement Program. application of
tolîs on Canadian highways. 1695
Transport Canada. details of budgetary savings under 1995 budget
plan. 1601
Unveiling- of Canadian War Memorial at Green Park. London.
England. guest list. 1070
Use of Government aircraft. 21 77
Veterans affairs
Breakdown of pensionable disabilities, 852
Dental care for veterans. 3 10
Entitlement under War Veterans Allowance. 852
Disability pension applications to Canadian Pension Commission.
852
Fînancial support to veterans associations. 852
Particulars of Canadian Forces personnel deployed in South East
Asia, 852
Particulars of staffing. 852
Recipients of disability pensions. 852
Recommendations to Task Force on Program Review. 765
Responsibility tor administering the Pension Act, 852
Shaughnessy Hospital, British Columbia. 3 10
Status of Canada trairnng regulations. 852
Status of pertinent legîslation. 5 17
War medals and awards. 3 10
Veterans Aftairs Canada
Breakdown of deployment of staff, 239
Vacancies in Corner Brook District Office. 203
Veterans Independence Program
Eligibility of veterans residing abroad, 1206
Qualification of veterans. 202
Veterans Land Administration. statut ot actîvities under Veterans
Lands Act, 852
Veterans' pensions and entitlements. 672
World War Il. European theatre of operations. list of prisoners of
war returned or repatriated to Canada. I1229

Railway strike
Sec Transport. measure to terminale
Railways bill S-1 (pro.forma). I r. 5
Rerorm Party, bid to become OfficiaI Opposition in House of
Commons. st. 2315-16
Regional development
Application of sîmilar rules in ail provinces. government position.
qu. 1183, (r) 1377
Relationship between Parliament and the Courts, înquiry. 985.
1065-69
Appointment of judg-es. 1066
Attendance of members. 1068
Control over internaI processes. 1067, 1068
Coordinate constitutional institutions. 1067
Hansard. 1067. 1068
Judicial independence. 1066, 1067
Parliamentary privilege. 1067
Speaker: Senator
Cools. Anne C.. 1065-69
Remembrance Day, st, 896, 909. 2227-28
Revenue
Capital gains election. dissemination of information to public.
request l'oi studies on effectiveness of measure. qu.
1237
Income tax. capital gains election. effect on seniors. qu. 1237.
(r) 1474-75
Revenue Canada
Amount of export tax paid by tobacco manutacturers. net losses to
tederal treasury. government position. qu. l058.
(r) 1190
Changes to excise tax on tobacco products. inequality of treatment
of provinces. government position. qu. 995-96.
(r) 1169-70
Details of budgetary savings under 1995 budget plan. tabled. 1601

Railway Safety amendment bill C-21. Ir. 421 z2r, 438-39. 457; ref to

Reviewing Canada's Foreign Policy, response of government to
report of Special Joint Committee. inquiry. 1211,
1258-61, 1464-66
Arts and culture. 1260
Children's issues. 1464-66
Human rights, 1260
International Assistance Envelope. 1260
Speakers: Senators
Andreychuk. A. Raynell. 1464
Gauthier. Jean-Robert. 1258-61
Kinsella. Noël A.. 1260, 1261
Pearson. Landon. 1464-66

Committee of the Whole. 457: considered in Committee
of the Whole. Hon. Earl A. Hastings in the Chair. 475-76:
rep without amdt. 476: 3r, 476; r.a.. chap. 15. 1994. 478
Bamrers to access. 457
Enforcement. 438
Fencing. 438
Native people. 438, 457
Penalty. 438
Prospectors. 438. 457
Ri,,hts-ol way. 457
Safcty. 438~
Ticspassine. 4(38, 457
Speakers: Scn;itoi s
Bonncll. M, Loi ne. 438-39
Johnsoni. Janis. 457

Reviewing Canada's Foreign Policy, Special Joint Committee
Authority to extend date of presentation of final report. 87 1. 887
Government response t0 recommendations of committee
tabled. 1179
Message from Commons. 214
Motion to appoint. 215. 252-56, 268-72
Speakers: Senators
Fair-bairn. Joyce. 253-56
Giýgantes. Philippe Deane. 269
Grahamn. B. Alasdair. 255
Lvnch-StauLntoni. Johin. 268-72
Mjaishal1. Jack. 255
MoILgat. Gildas L.. 215. 252-53. 255
Stcsvai-t. Johin B.. 255

Rabin, the late Yitzhak
Tributes to tormer Prime Mînîster of Israel, 2194-99

INDEX
Reviewing

Canada's

Foreign

Policy,

Special

joint

Committee-Con, 'd

Motion to print Volume 1 of Special Joint Comm ittee Report. 1211,
1233-34. 1244-45-, m in amdt. 1245-47; Speaker's
ruling. 1312-13; m in amdt. 1313-14-. adopted. 1314; m.
as amended, adopted. 1314
Speakers: Senators
Berntson. Eric Arthur, 1246, 1247
Di Nino. Consiglio, 1245-46. 1247
Doyle, Richard J.. 1246
Gauthier. Jean-Robert. 1313
Hastingas. Earl A.. 1245
Lynch-Staunton, John. 1244-45. 1247
MacEachen. Allant J., 1233-34. 1245. 1246, 1247. 1314
Stewart, John B.. 1246, 1247, 1314
Report tabled. 916, 944-47
Bipolar world order. 945
International security. 946
Sustainable development. 945
Trade interests, 945
Speaker: Senator
MacEachen. Allan J.. 944-47
Ruling by Speaker of House of Commons. point of order. 1014-18;
Speaker's ruling. 1192-94
Riel, Hon. Maurice
Beaulicu. Hon. Mario. tributes on occasion of resignation. 742
Camus, Albert, accepted pronunciation of family namne. st, 651.
652-53. 853-55
Chaput-Rolland. Hon. Solange. tributes on retirement. 417-18
Ritchie, Rob P., President and Chief Executive Officer, CI>
Transport, measure to terminate railway strike, considered in
Committee of the Whole, 1416-17, 1418. 1419-20.
1421
Ritchie, the late Charles Stewart Alinon, tributes. 1725, 1738-39
Rivest, Hon. Jean-Claude
Address in reply to Speech from the Throne, 139-42, 143
Budget Implementation, 1995 bill C-76, 1765-67
Canadian federalism. 1766. 1767
Health care services. 1766
Quebec. 1767
Business of the Senate, on presentation of petitions. 689
Canadian Heritage. governiment documents published unilingually.
infraction of policy on official languages. government
position. qu. 1892-93
Chaput-Rolland. Hon. Solange. tributes on retirement, 416
Constitution. goverilment efforts to keep Quebec within
Confederation, qu. 113
Constitutional Amendments bill C- 110, Special Senate Committee
report, 2565-67
Controlled Drugs and Substances bill C-7, 2218-19
Chemidcal compounds. 2218
Police infiltration. 2218
Volunteer drug prevention and drug victim support organizations,
2218, 2219
Federal-provincial relations. effect of federal policy on
pharmaceutical industry in Quebec. qu. 398
Humant resources development. professional training, domain of
provinces, government position. qu. 45. 46. (r) 220
Intergovernmental affairs. consultations with provinces on matters
conceming fiscal transfers. qu. 1598-99
Jalbert. the laie René. tributes. 2554
Justice. -un control legislati.on. avowal by the provinces not to
finance registration. government position. qu. 1662.
(r) 1988

Rivest, Hon. Jean-Claude
National defence
Closure of Le Collège Militaire Royal de St-Jean. government
position. qu. 951
Closure of Royal Military College at St-Jean. qu. 513. 621,
(r) 668. 670-71
Related expenditures. request for information. qu. 630
Request for information. qu. 603
National unity
Aftermath of Quebec referendum. necessity of reviewing
Pepin-Robarts report. st, 2228
Quebec referendum, relevance of CBC programming for
francophones outside Quebec. st, 2435
Quehec situation following rferendumn. government policy.
qu. 2167
Official Languages. Standing Joint Committee
Authority to meet during sitting of the Senate. 354
Authority to meet during sittings and adjoumments of the Senate.
421
Quebec, distinct society motion, legal opinion sought on
interpretation of wording. government position.
qu. 2491
West Coast Ports Operations, 1995 bill C-74, considered in
Comm-ittee of the Whole. 1327
Winter Olympics 2002, candidacy of Quebec City. st, 1613.
qu. 1762-63
Rizzuto, Hon. Pietro
Chaput-Rolland, Hon. Solange, tributes on mûtrement. 417
Roberge, Hon. Fernand
Beaulieu, Hon. Mario, tributes on occasion of resignation, 740
Budget. Statement of Minister of Finance. inquiry, 537-40
Atlantic Canada. 538
Debt, 539
Helicopters, 539
Military bases, 539
National debt management program. 539
Small business. 538
Tax increase. 538
Budget 1995. Statement of Minister of Finance. inquiry. 1362-64
Deficit, 1362, 1363
Infrastructure program, 1363
GST. 1363
Transfers to provinces. 1363
Unemployment, 1363
Employment, fluctuations in job creation statistics. situation in
Quebec, government position. qu. 2401. 2402
Federal -Provincial relations
Agreement on internaI trade. nature and timeliness of
amendments tu bill, government position. qu, 2210
Effect of enforcement provisions of agreement on internai trade
implementation bill on interprovincial trade.
govemment position, qu, 1715, (r) 1992-93
Jalbert, the late René, tributes. 2554
Prud'homme, Hon. Marcel, felicitations on the occasion of his
thirtieth anniversary in Parliament. st. 91
Winter Olympics 2002, candidacy of Quebec City. st, 1613
Robertson, Hon. Brenda M.
Agriculture. potato, blight in New Brunswick. compensation for
damages sustained by growers. government position.
qu. 1213. (r) 1303-04
Agriculture and Forestry Comm-ittee report
4th. lnterim. Future of agriculture in Canada. 1146
Atlantic Canada freight rate subsidy. 1146
Subsidies. 1146
Atlantic Canada Opportunities Agency
Atlantic Canada regional venture capital fund. equity financing
needs of small business. e-overnment position. qu. 1110
Substitution ofloans for- subsidies. application of similar rules in
aIl provinces. govemmient position. qu. 1110. (r) 1191

Robertson, Hon. Brenda M.-Cent 'd
Budget. Statement of Minister of Finance. inquiry. 371-73
Atlantic Canada. 371. 372. 373
Atlantic Canada Opportunity Agency. 372
Defence bases. closure, 371
Unemployment. 371
Unemployment insurance. 372
Budget Implementation. 1995 bill C-76. 1809. 1810
Canada Assistance Plan
Removal of programs from block tunding to provinces.
gcovernimenî position. qu. 1805
Canada Student Financial Assistance bill C-28&712
Implementation date. 712
Canada-United States relations, proposed imposition of U.S.
border-crossing tax. govemment position, qu. 1183
CN Commercial ization bill C-89. 1930-31
Atlantic Canada. 1930-31
Chaput-Rolland. Hon. Solange. tributes on retîrement. 415-16
Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Suspension bill, 1994,
constituencies. provinces. and municipalities. process of
consultation. government position, qu. 358
Fisheries
Aid for laid-off workers under the Atlantic Groundfish Strategy,
request for statistics. qu. 1716
Collapse of Atlantic fishery. longer-term provision for laid-off
workers under the Atlantic Groundfîsh Strategy.
government position. qu, 1715-16. (r) 1928-29
Support for vessels during moratorium. qu, 334, (r). 424
Fishenies and oceans
Establishment of lndustry Renewal Boards, government position
on buy-back of quotas and licences. qu. 305-06. (r) 424
Gun control legislation, presentation of petitions. 2090, 2_247
Health. HIV infection in women. reported increase in rate,
application of discretionary portion of' departmental
budget. government position. qu. 1213, (r) 1343-44
Huinan Resources l)evelopmenî
Proposed source of fundîng for creation of child care spaces.
government position. qu. 2119
Unemployment insurance retorm. relationship to redesign of
overaîl social programs. government policy. qu. 2420
Natural resources. new federal-provincial silviculture agreement,
government position. qu. 1802. (r) 2078
Ontario Court General Division, m to strike Special Commitîee te
examine and report upon the conduct and behaviour of
certain officers and justices. 1199, point of order.
1626-27
Privileges, Standing Rules and Orders Comrnittee
Authoriîv to act jointly with House of Commons Procedure and
House Affairs Committee on examination of operation
of joint committees. adopted. 1678
Point of order. 1779-81, 1782
Authoriîy to study and report upon decision of the House et
Commons to cease publication of committee
proceeding-s. 1723
Reports
lst, expenses incurred during 3rd Session. 34tb Parliament.
tabled. 202
See Journals of the Senate
2nd. recommending deletion of Rule 26 from Rules of the
Senate. 932, adopted. 1010
3rd. amending Rule 17(l), recaîl ot Senate. 1615. adopted.
1540
4th. printing separate Order Paper. changing title of Minutes te
Journais. amending Rules 29(2). (5). 86(4). 105(5) and
128. printino nesx Riiles et' the Senate and leqILICStin(
Library of Pai liamient te pîcpaîc nev index te Rulce..
1957. adeptcd. 2095
Rýegienal dc\ e opinent, application ot si ni ilai i nies in ahl pirovi nces.
1gos ci noiient position. qu. Il 83. <ir) 1377

Robertson, Hon. Brenda M.-Cernt'd
Selection Commitîee report
Sth. mnembership of Special Joint Comimittee on a Code of
Conduct. 1997
Solicitor General. RCMP marketing contract wîtb Disney
Corporation. requesi tor particulars. qu. 1959
Transport
Ad Hoc Parliamentary Commiîtee on Lightstations. consultations
in British Columbia. inquiry. 1156
Atlantic Region Freig-ht Assistance Program. request for impact
analysis. government position. qu. 1057
Request for answer. qu. 1167
Robichaud, P.C., Hon. Louis-J.
Business of the Senate. 479
Fournier, tbe late Hon. Edgar, tributes. 447-48
LeBlanc. P.C.. Hon. Romnéo. tributes on appointnîent as Governor
General of Canada. 965
Leblanc, the late Hon. Fernand E.. tributes. 2553
Quebec nationalism. inherent contradictions. inquiry. 612
Sylvain, Hon. John. tributes on resignatton fr-om Senate. 2552
Robiliard, Hon. Lucienne, Minister of Labour
Maintenance of' Railway Operations. 1995 bill C-77, considered in
Committec of the Whole. 1435. 1436, 1437-38, 1439.
1440, 1441-42. 1443. 1444
West Coast Ports Operations. 1995 bill C-74, considered in
Committee of' the Whole. 1325. 1326. 1327. 1328.
1329. 1330. 1331. 1332. 1333
Rompkey, P.C., Hon. William H. (introduced in the Senate Oct. 3/95>,
2058-60
Canadian NATO Parliamentary Association
North Atlantic Assembly
Report et Canadian I)elegation îabled. 2166
Report of Canadian Deleg-ation te annual session tabled. 2264
Report of annual committee meeting in North Anierîca.
tabled. 2068
Status of Women. anniversary of Pîivy Council decision.
congratulations te wînners of 1995 Persons Awards.
st. 2117
Rossiter, Hon. Eileen
Agriculture and Agri-Feod Administrative Menetary Penalties
bill C- 61. 2213-14
Appeals. 2213
Entorcement of penalties. 2213
Canadian Dairy Comnmission amendment bill C-86. 1883
Levy sysîem. 1883
Coastal Fishertes Protection amendiment bill C2-29, 461
Fisheries surveillance. 461
Helîcopters, 461
Penalties. 461
200-mile zone. 461
Department of Agriculture amendment bill C-49. 905-06
Agi-food packaging and labellîng. 905
Annual report. 906
Change in name. 905
Clarification of mandate. 905
Experiniental farm stations. 905
New responsibilities. 905
Fisheries
Atlantic Gieuindfish Pregiani. change in benefîts. ,everninent
position. qu. 30-4. (r) 435
Fisheries Conîniiîtec
A niheiit s te exsaiine a n nual iecîiei ioe I h)eîîatiien(i (i Fi shiries
and ()ceansý. 371). adoetd. 411
Authotv te extend date li fi nal ireport. 1679. adetd, h1710(2

INDEX
Rossiter, Hon. Eileen-Coni 'd
Fisheries Committee-Coint'd
Reports
Ist. expenses incurred during 3rd Session. 34th Parliament.
tahled. 109
2nd. annual report of Department of Fisheries and Oceans on
the Atlantic groundfish fishery. tabled. 2415. adopted.
2632
Roux, Hon. Jean-Louis (introduced in the Senate Oct.4/94), 838
Budget 1995. cuts to Canada Council and other arts organizations.
st, 1280

Canada Council, consultations on the future. inquiry, 1165. 119-5-98,
1233
Arts and culture, 1195, 1196
Budget of Canada Council. 1198
Canada Council. 1196. 1197
Culture, 1196
Deficit. 1197
Private sector, 1197
Response te, question, 1204
Self censorship. 1233
Spending cuts, 1198
Canada'1s Defence Policy, Special Joint Committee report.
1116-18
Cooperation. 1 17
Cultural policy, 1 17
Defence conversion, 1118
Military weapons, 1 18
National Defence White Paper. Il118
Non-governmental organizations. 1 17
Training, 1116
Voluntary community service. 1116
Weapons acquisition, 1117
Felicitations on receiving honorary degree. st, 1674
Firearms bill C-68, 1904-07, 1908, 1910
Domestic violence. 1906
Registration. 1906
Rights of aboriginal peoples, 1907. 1910
Subsistence hunters. 1907
Gerussi. the late Bruno. tributes. 2397
Gun control legisiation
Presentation of petitions. 2133. 2177
Hébert, Hon. Jacques. congratulations on award of Lewis Perinbam
Prize, st, 1888
Legal and Constitutional Affairs Committee report
16th. Firearmns bill C-68, with 14 amdts. 2279-80
Aboriginal peoples, 2279
Registration, 2280
Nigeria. execution of Ken Saro-Wiwa and nine other Ogoni
activists. st, 2313
Rabin, the late Yitzhak. tribute to, former Prime Minister of Israel.
2198-99
Rowe, the late Hon. Frederick George, tributes, 683-85
Royal Assent, 76, 298, 478, 664. 772-73. 837. 989, 1178-79. 1334,
1446, 1498. 1793-94, 1919, 2056-57, 2240, 24 10-1l.
2546-47. 2638
Cory. Hon. Peter deC.. Puisne Judge of the Supreme Court of
Canada. 478. 664, 837. 2056-57. 2240
Gonthier. Hon. Charles. Puisne Judge of the Supreme Court of
Canada. 989. 1919
Hnatyshyn. Rt. Hon. Ramon John. His Excellency the Governor
General of Canada. Il178
Lamer. Rt. Hon. Antonio. Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of
Canada. 1446. 2638
L'Heureux-Dube. Hon. Claire. Puisne Judge of the Suprerne Court
of Canada. 772-73

Royal Assent-Cont 'd
Major. Hon. John. Puisne Judge of the Supreme Court of Canada.
76. 24 10-11.ý2546-47
McLachlin. Hon. Beverley, Puisne Judge of the Supreme Court of
Canada. 298. 1334, 1498
Sopinka. Hon. John. Puisne Judge of the Supreme Court ot Canada,
1793-94
Royal Canadian Mint amendment bill C-82. Ir. 1890; 2r, 1917-19,
1932-34; ref to com. 1934; rep without amdt. 1978;
3r, on div. 1993-95; r.a.. chap. 26. 1995. 2056
"Doubloon". 1917
Expenses for businesses, 1918
Savings. 1917
Vending industry. 1918
Speakers: Senators
Berntson. Eric Arthur, 1918
Bryden. John G..,t918
Graham. B. Alasdair. 1918. 1919. 1993
Kenny, Colin. 1917-18
Murray, Lowell. 1934
Prud'homme. Marcel, 1918. 1919. 1932-34. 1993-95
Royal Canadian Mounted Police
Centennial of association with the Yukon, st. 2242-43
Royal Military College
See Budget
National Defence
Rules of the Senate
Infringement of Rule 26, qu. 188
Sabtu Dene and Métis Land Claim Settlement bill C-16. Ir, 649;
2r, 676; ref to com. 676, rep without amndt, 743; 3r. 743;,
r.a.. chap. 27. 1994, 773
Boards to, regulate land and water use. 676
Entrenchmnent in Constitution. 676
Environmental Impact Review Board. 676
Hunting and fishing rights, 676
Ownership of land. 676
Resource royalties. 676
Surface Rights Board, 676
Speakers: Senators
Adams. Willie. 676
Beaudoin, Gérald-A., 676
St. Germain, Hon. Gerr
Address in reply to, Speech from the Throne. 120-23
Agriculture, grain handling capacity of Ports of Vancouver and
Prince Rupert, inquiry. 411
British Columbia, proposaIs on national unity issues. unfair
treatment of province. st, 2396
Budget
Action against high interest rates, government position. qu. 1086
Canadian Broadcasting Corporation, justification of funding.,
government position. qu. 163
Reaction of International Monetary Fund to government's
proposaI to reduce deficit. government response.
qu, 9.53-54
Review of goal for deficit reduction. government position.
qu. 1085-86
Canadian War Museum. termination of employment of veterans.
st. 2554-55
Coastal Fisheries Protection amendment bill C-29. considered in
Committee of the Whole. 463. 464. 465
Constitutional Amendments bill C-I 110. Special Senate Committee
report. 2579-80. 2581. 2617
Cirial Code. bill to amiend sentencing provisions. presentation of
petition. 1958

St. Germain, Hon. Gerry-Cooi 'd
Crow's Nest Pass. elimination of' crow raie, goverrnmcnt policy.
qu. 622
Detence
Protection of Arctic sover-eig-nty. goverrnent position. qu. 1634
Reasons for acquisition of Upholder Class Submarines.
governiment position. qu. 1633-34. (r) 2-367
lEconomy
Effeci ol taxation on standard of living-. st. 109
Failure of infrastructure program to create jobs,~ governiment
position. qu, 1714
Possibility of accelerated deficit reduction. governmenî position.
qu. 1226
Target for reduction of deficit. government position. qu. 1224-25
Unacceptable level of' unemployment. governmenî position.
qu. 1713-14
Electoral Boundaries Commission, suspension of operation under
proposed legisiation
Government position. qu. 251
Proposed use of closure. govemnment position. qu. 283, 284
Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Act. .suspension of' operation ot'
act.
Electoral Boundaries Readjustmenî. 1995 bill C-69, point of order.
1899
Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Suspension bill. 1994. Britishi
Columbia. concerns of constituenîs. st. 394
Firearms bill C-68. 1823-24, 1907. 1909
Aboriginal peoples. 1823. 1907
New Zealand. 1823
Firearms bill. presentation of petition. 1958
Forestry. Clayoquot Sound
Grant by CIDA to protest g-roup. qu. 873. (r) 987
Grant by CIDA to proîest group agaînst logging. qu. 882
Government position. requesi for- answer. qu. 935
Con control legisiation. presentation ot'petitions. 2100, 2153. 2317
International trade. relations wîth Eoropean Union, impact on local
industries. govemment position. qu. 1600. (r) 2071-72
Justice
Authority for statement on polîtîcal non-involvement in police
investigations. govemment position. qu. 2466
Gun control legaisiation. comments of Prime Minister on
provincial responsibility. request for clarification.
qu. 1662. (r) 1989-90
Impact of gun control legisiation on rural society. government
position. qu. 1358-59
Political non-involement in police investigations. statement of
minister to media. st. 2461
Sale of Airbus Aircraft to Air Canada. alleged conspîracy to
detraud federal governimenî
Knowledge of Minister, govemnment position. qu. 2267
Motivation for RCMP investigation. government position.
qu. 2248. 2249
Motivation of minister in instituting inqoiries. qu. 2489
Lawson. Hon. Edward M.. twenty-ftfth anniversary of appointment
to the Senate, 2097
LeBlanc. PC.. Hon. Roméo, tribotes on appointment as Governor
General of Canada. 968-69
Legcal and Constitutional Affairs Commîttee reports
2nd. Electoral Boundaries Readjostmenî Suspension. 1994
bill C- 18. 497
8th. Pearson International Airpori Agreements bill C-22. 807.
80K.811 813. 814-15
l6th. Firearms bill C-68, with 14 anidîs. 2256. 2262. 2283. 2287.
2300-01,.2309-12
Abori gi nal peoples. 2256. 2262
Long, guns. 2283
Marine Transportation Setiîît lv ltC-38. 9~21-23
Ci uisc s essels. 922
Foreign sh ips. 922
Intcernational NMarne ( )î caiiatiori. 9221
Lavs ot the Sca. 922,

St. Germain, Hon. Gerrv -Cont'd
Marine Transportation Securiîy bill C-38. 921-23
NAFFA. 922
Piracy and fraud. 922, 923
Ship identification number scheme. 922
Terrorism. 921-22
Molgat. Hon. Gildas L.. twenth-fifîh anniversary of appointment to
the Senate. 2097
National detence
Canadian Airborne Regiment. inquiry into conduct. possibilîty of
reinstatement. qu, 1253-54
Disbandment of Canadian Airborne Regiment. difference of
opinion between Minister and Chief of Defence Staff'.
govemment position. qu. 2068-69
Govemment treatment of mniltary. st. 1248-49
Peacekeeping in Bosnia. ability of îroops to withdraw from
Visoko if recalled. governiment position. qu. 1840. 1841
National finance
Bank of' Canada. salary increases for officiaIs. governiment
position. qu. 1960
Control of debt and deficit. government position. qu. 1925
Cutbacks in transter payments to western provinces. governnent
position. qu. 401
1)ebt and deficit management. evaluation of International
Moneîary Fund. government position. qu. 2464
Deficit reduction plan. governiment position. qu. 514. 515. 551
Downgrading of government's credit rating, governmenî position.
qu. 239. (r) 324-25
Increase in bank rate. defîcît reduction plan. requesi for fiscal
update. qu. 689-90. 691
Job creation. g-ovemment policy. qu. 1925. (r) 2050
Meeting o] federal and provincial mînisters. discussion of possible
national debt management plan. goverrnient position.
qu. 2463-64
National Unîty. result of Quebec Referendum. st. 2148
Pearson Airport Agreements. Spec ial Senate Committee on.
si. 2098_99
Senate
Pearson International Airpoit. possibility ut judicial inquiry.
govemment position. qu. 1300)
Transport
Pearson Atrport Agreements
Evidence of Mr. Matthews before Senate committee.
govemment position. qu. 2100
Fonction of Prime Minister at meeting wiîh Matthews Croup.
qu. 1530
Public inquiry. govemrment position. qu. 1530
Request for appearance of mînister before Senatc committee.
qu. 1521
Search and rescue. replacement of' Sea King helicopter fleet.
governme ni position. qu. 453-54.' (r) 585-86. 604.
(r) 836
Wenman. the laie Robert Lloyd. trîbute. 1795
Winter Olympîcs 2002. candidacy of Quebec City. st. 1612
World '[rade Organization Agreement Implementation bill C-57.
1073-74
St-Jean-Baptiste I)ay
Felicitaîtons to French Canadians. si, 742
Good wishes to French Canadians. 1916-17
St-Jean Military College
Sec Budget
National Detence
Saint .Iohn, Nesw Brunswick
Bih inLual natture et work toi-ce. si. 635
St. 1atrick's Day. flhcitations. 222

INDEX
Saskatchewan
Appointment of Lieutenant-Governor. nature of appointment.
government position. qu. 321-22
Congratulations to Liberai Party on becoming officiai opposition,
st. 1889

Schizophrenia, st. 1544-45
Schneerson, the late Rabbi Menachem Mendel, tribute. 626
Science, research and development, tax credits for research and
deveiopment. qu. 994, (r) 1169
Scotia Synfuels Project, grandfathering of investment tax credit. tabled.
996
Scrutiny of Regulations, Standing Joint Commnittee
Authority to meet during adjourniments of the Senate. 202;
m withdrawn. 317
Membership. message from Commons. 48-49
Reports
lst. expenses incurred during 3rd Session, 34th Parliamrent. 214.
adopted. 243
See Joumals of the Senate
2nd. Illegal dispensations. tabled, 1038. 1148-50
Government response. 1149
Rules of joint committee. 1149, 1150
Speakers: Senators
Lewis. P. Derek. 1149. 1150
Lynch-Staunton. John. 1149-50
3rd. Disallowance. tabled. 1631-32. 1695-96
Speaker: Senator
Lewis. P. Derek. 1695-96
See Joumnals of the Senate
Senate membership
See Journals of the Senate
Second World War, information from Soviet archives on Canadian
armed forces personnel missing in action at Torgau,
tabled, Il112
Second World War, participation of Canadian troops in Italian
campaigan. inquiry, 550, 782-83. 877
Speaker: Senator
Corbin, Eymard G., 550
Secord, Thm, Legisiative Director, United Transportation Union
Transport. measure to terminate railway strike. considered in
Committee of the Whole. 1406-09, 1410, 1411, 1412,
1413, 1414. 1415, 1416
Security and Intelligence, possibility of establishing Senate cominittee.
inquiry. 1085. 1194-95, 1221, 1508-10. 1561-62
Bristow affair, 1194
Canadian Security Intelligence Service, 1508. 1509. 1562
Communications Security Establishment, 1562
Confidence. 1194
Credihility. 1194
Externat review mechanism. 1194
Mandate. 1194. 1195
Monitoring. 1194
Parliamentary monitoring. 1l194
Rýestr-uetur-ing ci cointees. 1194

Right-wi ng tenrorismn. 1562

Security and Intelligence
Security Intelligence Review Committee. 1194. 1195
Speakers: Senators
Corbin. Eymard G., 1508- 10
Graham. B. Aiasdair. 1195
Kelly, William M.. 1085, 1194-95. 1561-62
Selection Committee
as
Appointment. 6; l5-16z m in amdt. adopted, 16-18, mn, amended.
adopted, 18
Authority te extend deadline for selection of members of Special
Committee on Pearson Airport Agreements, 1632
Reports
1st, Speaker pro terr, 22
2nd, membership of committees, 22-25
See Joumals of the Senate
3rd. membership of InternaI Economny. Budgets and
Administration Comimittee, adopted. 103
4th. membership of Pearson Airport Agreements Special
Committee. adopted. 1676
5th. membership of Code of Conduct Special Joint Committee,
1981-82. adopted, 1996-97
Senate
Absence of Govemment Leader. 527, 934, 1615
Amendments to Bill C-22, refusaI by Minister to appear before
Senate Committee. qu. 1299-300
Annual Report
See Clerk of the Senate
Bolduc, Maurice. felicitations on election as President of
l'Association professionnelle des sténographes officiels
du Québec. st. 1583
Civic contributions cf members past and present, st, 2130-31
Condition of chamber, félicitations to staff. 7
Criticism by members of the media, st, 2433-34
Conrection, 2443-44
Distribution of Debates and Minutes to Members of the House of
Commons. qu. 550-51
Editorial in Ottawa Citizen. st. 1795
Expression of thanks. st, 626
Felicitations to Mr. Chartes Robert on his appointment as Reading
Clerk. 2096
House of Commons. changes to method of reporting committee
proceedings, availability te senators of computer link,
government position. qu. 1651
Lauriault. Mr. Douglas. resignation as page, best wishes, 837
On the nature Of debate. st, 784
Pearson International Airport, possibility of judicial inquiry.
govemment position. qu, 1300-01
Prince Edward Island, appointment of new senator. government
position, qu, 1453
Proposai for debate on foreign affairs and national defence. request
for comrmtment, qu, 552-53
Public statements by Minister of Transport regarding motives of
certain senators. qu. 1283-84, 1285, 1286
Position of Leader of the Govemment, qu. 1298-99
Public statements by Minister of Transport regarding motives of
certain senators, st. 1280-81
Recognition of the role of women during Royal Assent, 299
Remarks by Minister of Transport. st, 855
Request for clarification. qu. 873-74
Return te chamber of Deputy Leader cf the Govemment, st. 742-43
Role of the opposition. st, 598
Statements of press concerning certain senators. si. 235
Time limnits for interventions under the miles. st. 1886-87
Tribute te departing page. st. 392
Tributes t0 pages and te staff. 2044-45
Value of independent senators. governiment position. qu. 2092
Wilson. Mr. t)uane. page. on the occasion of his resignation, best
wishes f'or future. st. 1527-28

Senate, absence of approval for various projects, inquiry, 994,
1051-53, 1127, 1350
Abbott Commission, 1051
East Block renovation. 10,51. 1053
Powers of Internai Economy Committee. 1053
Senate's rîght to be informed. 1052
"The Long--Term Construction Project-. 1051
Speakers: Senators
Berntson. Eric Arthur. 1350
Di Nino. Consialio. 1052, 1053
Doyle. Richard J., 1051-52, 10-53
Murray. Lowell. 1053
Stewart. John B.. 1053
Senate, impact of decision of House of Commons to cease
publication of committee proceedings, inquiry. 1526.
1592-95. 1644-47. 1656
Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedomis. 1593, 1644. 1645
Committees as part of parliamentary systeni. 1645. 1646. 1647
Constitution. 1592. 1645. 1646
Cost-sharing. 1592, 1593
Duplication of services. 1594
Committee clerks. 1595
Purchasin. 1595
Security. 1595
Transportation. 1595
Interpretation. 1593. 1594, 1646
Language rights. 1644
Official Languages Act. 1593. 1644. 1645. 1646
Participation in joint committees. 1645
Savings. 1593
Supreme Court of Canada. 1644, 1645
Translation. 1593. 1646
Speakers: Senators
Beaudoin. Gerald A.. 1644-45, 1646, 1647
Corbin, Eymard G.. 1594. 1595. 1645
Gauthier. Jean-Roheil. 1526. 1592-94. 1595. 1646-47
Stewart. John B.. 1645
Senate fund for Gatineau ire victims, st. 1528
Senator, deceased
Desmarais, Hon. Jean Noël (JuIy 26/95). 2060-63
Senators, new
Anderson. Hon. Doris M. (Oct. 3/95). 2058-60
Bacon, Hon. Lise (Oct. 4/94), 838
Bryden. Hon. John G. (Nov. 29/94). 991-92
Carstairs. Hon. Sharon (Oct. 4/94), 838
Gauthier. Hon. Jean-Robert (Nov. 29/94). 991-92
Hervieux-Payette. Hon. Celine (Mar. 28/95). 1447-48
Losier-Cool. Hon. Rose-Marie (Mar. 28/95). 1447-48
Maheu. Hon. Shirley (Feh. 1/96). 2550-51
Milne. Hon. Loma (Oct. 3/95). 2058-60
Pearson. Hon. Landon (Oeit. 25/94). 869-70
Poulin. Hon. Marie-R. (Oct. 3/95), 2058-60
Rompkey. Hon. William H. (Oct. 3/95). 2058-60
Roux. Hon. Jean-Louis (Oct. 4/94). 838
Senators, resignations
Beaulieu. Hon. Manio (June 22/94)
Everett. Hon. Dougýlas (Jan. 20/94)
Frith. Hon. Royce (Aug. 30/94)
LeBlanc. Hon. Romeéo A. (Nov. 22/94)
Sylvain, Hon. John (Jan. 3 1/96)
Senators. retirernents
Chaput Rol land. Hon. Solange ( May 14/94)
D)avid. Hon. Paul (l)ec. 25/94)

Senators, retirements-Conît'd
Lang., Hon. Daniel A. (June 13/94)
Macquarrie. Hon. Heath (Sept. 18/94)
Marshall. Hon. Jack (Nov.26/94)
Muir Hon. Robert (Nov.l0/94)
Neinian. Hon. Joan (Sept.9/95)

Simard. Hon. JIean-Maurice
Atlantic Canada. tourism. source of employment. g-overnment
policy. 510
Best wishes on recovery. 1283
Budget
Closure of Military College at St-Jean. related additional costs.
qu. 623. (r) 670-71
Proposed closure of Royal Military Collegce of St-Jean. qu, 398-99
Cancellation of decision. governiment position. qu. 305
Question ot'prîvilege. 227
Reversai of decision. government position. qu. 218, 219,
237-38
Statement of Minister ot Finance. inquiry 260-61I
Atlantic provinces. 260
Business of the Senate. 1963
Adjourrnment. 249-50
Cabinet. Liberal election promises on reduction in size. governiment
position. qu. 1707
Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission.
cable service to French-speaking communities. st. 599
Communications, gra nting of' public relations contract for G-7
Summit. request for estimated final cost. qu. 1928.
(r) 208 1-82
Request for answer. qu. 1959
Constitutional amendments bill C- 110, 2542-43
Amending formula. 2542
Francophones oh New Brunswick., 2542
Veto. 2543
Court Challenges Program. reinstatement. congratulations to the
government. st. 870)
Department of National Revenue amendment bill C-2, 384-85
Unionized employees. 384
Finance
Duplication of programs with provinces. governiment position.
qu. 874
Fiscal program update. possibility of tax increases. government
position. qu. 874
Goods and Services Tax
Application on reading materials and eye glasses, position of'
governiment leader, qu. 856-57
Forecast for élimination or replacement. government position.
qu. 2441
Removal of tax on reading materials. government position.
qu. 2442
Human Resources Development
Child care. federal offer of funding. commenîs in media.
govemment position. qu. 2503
Unemployment insurance reforni
Correspondence between federal and New Brunswick
gloverniments. request for tablîng of documentation,
qu. 2419
Meeting, between representatives of federal and New
Brunswick governments. request foi tabling of
documentation. qu. 2403
Program for study of legislation. government position.
qu. 2506. 2507
Human resouices. reviess oh social programs. qu. 856
Incomie Tax amiencdment bill C-70. 18801X
I)eht Iogsns.18801
Foi-cclosLII c. 18801
I ncoicTas Anicndnients Rcvs ion bill C-15. 382-83
I nlI i
astiucînil c Pio-rani
Fi nanci ng toi Kanata Pal lad ium . gýos et ment position. qu. 335

INDEX
Simard, Hon. Jean-Maurice-Coot'd
Internai Economy. Budgets and Administration Committee report
2l1st. Re-examination of Senate Estimates 1995-96. 1461-62. 1507
International Assembly of French-Speaking Parliamentarians. Tenth
session of Regional Assembly, tabled, 131
Justice. Minister's view on efficacy of jailing non-violent young
offenders. application of samne principle to transgressors
against firearms legisiation. government position, qu.
2271
Members of Parliament Retiring Allowances amendment bill C-85,
2013-15
Ministry. lack of focus of Cabinet ministers. qu, 666
National defence
Closure of Royal Military College at St-Jean. qu. 513-14, 602-03,
(r) 669
Request for answers. 629-30. 666
Disposition of Royal Military College at St-Jean, governiment
position. qu. 503-04. (r) 671-72
St-Jean Military College. effects of proposed closure. st. 212-13
National finance
Bank of Canada
Pay increases to officiais. qu. 1984
Salary increases for officiaIs, government position. qu. 1959,
1960
Goods and Services Tax
Status of intergovernmental negotiations, government position.
qu, 2402
Timing of resignation of Deputy Prime Minister. qu. 2402
Increase in banik rate,* government position. qu. 630. 666-67. 691,
692
National Finance Committee report
6th. lnterim, Estimates. 1994-95, 736-38
Collège militaire royal at St-Jean. 736-38
National unity. constitutional amendments, request for tabling of
documents prepared by New Brunswick officiaIs,
qu, 2442
New Brunswick
Share of patronage appointments. govemment position. qu. 357
Officiai languages. report of Commissioner. recommendation to
discontinue bilingual bonus, government position,
qu. 304-05
Pearson International Airport Agreements bill C-22. 679
Quebec. m to recognize as distinct society, 2535-36
Youtb. Katimavik. reestablishment of programn qu. 357. 358
Smnail Business Loans amendmnent bill C-99. Ir. 2486; 2r, 2511-13;
ref to com. 2513; rep without amdt. 2538; 3r, 2538-39;
rna., chap. 48. 1995, 2547
Administration fees, 2512. 2513
Approving boans. 2511l
Claim processing fee. 2513
Discharge of securities. 2512
Extent of responsibility. 2512
Level of guarantees and program fees. 2513
Loans for capital spending. 2511
Maximum boan guarantee, 2513
Minister's discretionary power. 2512
Rate of coverage, 2511
Regulations. 2512
Security and personal guarantees. 2513
Speakers: Senators
Hervieux-Payette. Céline. 2511 -12
Oliver, Donald H., 2512-13
Social affairs
Amount of funding available for child care strateay. covernnient
position. qu. 1375-76, <r) 1553
Implemientation of national child care stratec'y. -overnment position.
qu. 1375. (r) 1552-53
Refoi-m of child support systein. gos ernrnent position. qu. 1357,
(r) 1551-52

Social Affairs, Science and Technology, Standing Senate Committee
Authority for Subcommittee on Veterans Affairs to meet during
sitting of the Senate. 689
Authority to examine future direction of Department of Veterans
Affairs. 110, 176. 195, 350-5I. 375
Authority to examine Veterans Health Care Regulations. 42,
withdrawn. 107-08
Autbority to meet during sittings of the Senate. 739, 1339, 1957.
2265
Authority to refer report of the Special Commission on
Restructuring of the Reserves. 2246; adopted. 2278
Membership
See Journals of the Senate
Reports
Ist. expenses incurred during 3rd Session. 34th Parliament. tabled,
91
See Journals of the Senate
2nd. Budget. sub-committee on veterans affairs. 547, adopted. 587
See Journals of the Senate
3rd, Canadian Film Development Corporation amendment
bill C-31. without amdt, 686
4th. Department of Labour amendment bill C-30, without amdt.
757

Sth. future development of tbe Department of Veterans Affairs.
tabled. 897-900. 926-28
6th. Unemployment Insurance amendment bill C-216, without
amdt. 1338
7th. Department of Canadian Heritage bill C-53. without amdt but
with observation. 1529
8th, Immigration. Citizenship, Customs amendment bill C-44.
1760
See Journals of the Senate
9th. Veterans Review and Appeal Board bill C-67, without amdt.
1798
See Joumnals of the Senate
10Kb Old Age Security. Canada Pension Plan. Children's Special
Allowances. Unemployment Insurance amendment bill
C-54, witbout amdt but with recommendations. 1981
1l th. Employment equity bill C-64, with amdts. 2316; ref back to
comn, 2385-86
See Journals of the Senate
12th. Employment equity bill C-64, without amdt, 2468-69
13tb. National Defence, Special Commission on Restructuring of
the Reserves. 2499-500; adopted. 2543
See Journals of the Senate
Social Programns ini Canada, inquiry. 2416. 2599-605
Speaker: Senator
Thériault. L. Norbert, 2599-605
Solicitor General
Cumulative total of firearms recovered by RCMP tabled, 1206
Efficacy of security arrangements at residence of Prime Minister,
st. 2199
Government position. qu. 2200
Request for results of investigation. qu, 2270-71
Review of security arrangements at officiaI residences, publication
of results, government position. qu. 2200
RCMP marketing contract with Disney Corporation. request for
particulars. qu. 1958-59, (r) 2082-83
Solicitor General of Canada, tabled. 2083
Sopinka, Hon. John, Puisin Judge of the~ Supreme Court of Canada
Royal Assent. 1793-94
South Africa
Establishment of new parliamentary system. st. 1449
Free and democratic elections. monitoring by Canadian deleg-ation.
qu. 399-400
Readimittance into Commonwealth. st. 509- 10
See aiso United Nations

South Africa, irst democratic elections, inquiry. 421, 566-70. 640.
793-97
Afrikaners. 795
Apartheid. 566, 568. 569
Bushman. 797
Canada-South Afr-ica relations. 793
Child labour. 567
Future of South Afrîca. 569
Health system. 567
llliteracy, 796
Murder rate. 795
Personal violence. 795. 796
Racism. 569
Soviet Union-backed wars. 795
Unemployment. 567
United Nations Observer Mission in South Africa. mandate. 567
Zulu nation. 796. 797
Speakers: Senators
Bosa. Peter. 64()
Frith. Royce. 568
Oliver. Donald H.. 421

Sparrow, Hon. Herbert 0.
Business of the Senate
Adjournment. m stands. 2176
Report of Leg-al and Constitutional Affairs Committee on firearms
legislation. votes on amendments. request tor advice on
procedure. qu. 2269. 2270
Justice, sale of Airbus aircraft to Air Canada. alleged conspiracy to
dcfraud tederal government. equality of citizens before
the law. request for confirmation. qu. 2250
Legal and Constitutional Affairs Comnmittee report
l6th. Firearms bill C-68. with 14 arndts. 2262. 2290, 2297-99.
2300.,2309
Guns as tools. 2297. 2298
Licensîn. 2262
Registration of long-banrel guns. 2297
Suicide. 2300
Violence. 2300

Speaker

of

the Senate (Hon. Roméo LeBlanc. PC.resigned Nov. 22/94)
Business of the Senate. 844
Speaker's ruling. 932
Camus. Albert, accepted pronunciation of family name. 855
Clerk of the Senate
Accounts tabled. 22, 880
Appoîntment of Gordon Barnhart. Esq. as honorary officer of the
Senate. 178
Appointment of Paul C. Bélisle, Esq.. 178
Commission appointing Hon. Roméo LeBlanc to office of Speaker
of the Senate. 1
See LeBlanc. P.C.. Hon. Romeo
Library ot Parliament. rep of Librarian for 1992-93 tabled. 420
Muir. Sen. Robert. best wîshes on recoveiy. 844
National I)efence Policy. proposed Special Joint Committee.
message (rom Commons. 149
New senators. 838
Fclicitations. 844
Officia] agugs annual report of cominissionci tablcd. 301
Point of ordcî
Scnators< Siaiemients. 546. 547
Pi \aCv Coininissioncr. annual reporti tabled. 845
Question o! Pusiilce'c. 808. 877: rtilinc. 919-201
Senate Annual Report loir 1992-93 tabled. 22

Speaker of the Senate (Hon. Romeo LeBlanc. P.C.> Coiir'dl
Senate
Condition of chamber. felicitations to statt. 7
Tribute îo departing pagc. 392
Spicer. Erik J.. Esq.. tribute on retirement as Parliamenîary Librarian
and designation as Parliamentary Librarian Emeritus.
279
Visitors in gallery. 91, 178. 434,.800. 917

Speaker of the Senate (Hon. Gildas L. Molgat)
Business of the Senate. 2065-66. 2483
Point of order. 2371. 2372
Cbristmnas Greetingas. 1178. 2549
Commission appointing Hon. Gildas L. Molgat to office of Speaker
of the Senate. 948
Sce Molgat. Hon. Gildas L.
Distinguisbed vîsîtor. Chief of Staff of Federation Council. Federal
Assembly of the Russian Federation. 1222
Electoral Boundaries Readjustment. 1995 bill C-69. mi to concur
with message from Commons. 1847
Firearms bill, inquiry, 2372. 2373
Information Commissioner annual rep tabled. 1773
Intemnal Economy. Budget and Administration Committee report
22nd. respecting m to print Volume 1 of Special Joint Commîîtee
on Reviewing Canada's Foreign Policy. 1604. 1605.
1607-08
Library of Parliament. rep of Lîbrarian for 1993-94 tabled. 1689
Marshall. Hon. Jack, tributes on retirement. 982
New senators. introduction. 1447. 2550
Official Languages. annual report of commissioner tabled. 1546
Ontario Court General Division. m t0 strike Special Comimittee to
examine and report upon the conduct and behaviour of'
certain officers and justices, point of order. 2170. 217 1,
2172
Pag-es Exchange Program with House of Commons. 1703, 224L.
236l. 2395. 2459
Parliamentary assemhlies of French-speaking couuntries. report oI
conference of Speakers. Paris. France. 2416
Privacy Commissioner. annual report tabled. 2067
Privilege. oral notice. 2204. 2205
Rulings
Appropriation No. 4. 1994-95 bill C-79, point of order 1453-58;
rulîng. 1475-76
Electoral Bouindaries Readjustment. 1995 bill C-69, point of
order. 1896-903; ruling. 1913
First Nations Govemment bill S-l10. 1621-22; ruling. 1669-70
Karla Homoîka bill S- 1l.point of order, 2139-43; ruling. 2367-68
Leg-al and Constitutional Affairs Committee
Motion instructing com to table final rep re C-69. point of
order. 2423-28; ruling, 2428-29
Notice of motion 10 instruct com to table final rep. point of
order. 2370. 2376. 2379. 2380, 2381. 2389: ruling.
2390-94
Newspaper article in Edmonton Sun. question of privilege.
2105-07; ruling. 2211-12
Ontario Court General Division. m to strike Special Committee to
examine and report upon the conduct and bebaviour of
certain officers and justices. point of order 1625-29;
ruling. 2003-O5
Privileges. Standing Rules and Orders. point of order 1747. 178 1,
1782: ruling. 1843-44
Revîewing Canada's Foreign Policy. mnto print Volume 1 of
Special Joint Committee report. 1246. 1247; ruling.
1312-13. 1314
Re\,ie\sx ini- Canada 's For-eîgn Policy. i uling by Speaker of the
House ot Commons. point of oirder. 1<)8: rulîng.
1192-93
Scniaiois' Si:îicmcnis. 1573
Use o! point ol oi dci to block debate. question olpsie'.220)4.
2205: uLline.n 235 1-53

INDEX
Speaker of the Senate (Hon. Gildas L. Molgat)-Cont'd
Senate
Criticism by members of the media. correction. 2444
Delay in delivery of officiai documents. 2433
Felicitations to Mr. Charles Robert on his appointment as Reading
Clerk. 2096
Report of Legal and Constitutional Affairs Committee on firearms
legisiation. votes on amendments. request for advice on
procedure. 2269, 2270
Speaker's Christmas Party, 2432
Statement re debatable motion, 1913
Tributes on appointment as Speaker of the Senate. 948-49
Visitors in the gallery. 949, 982, 992. 1096. 1204, 1348, 1354, 1500.
1515. 1612, 1618, 1659. 1663, 1800. 2038, 2096. 2108,
2211.,2346. 2361. 2371, 2417
Speaker's Christmas Party, 2432
Speciai Economic Measures (Haiti) Regulations, 1993, report ref to
Foreign Affairs Committee, 1598
Speech from the Throne at Opening of First Session of Thirty-fifth
Parliament,
See Address in reply to Speech from the Throne
Spicer, Erik J., Esq.
Tributes on retirement as Parliamentary Librarian and designation as
Parliamentary Librarian Emeritus, 276-79
Spivak, Hon. Mira
Aboriginal rights. study of low-Ievel military flights over Labrador,
denial of opportunity for anthropologist to give fuill
testimony, st, 992-93
Agriculture
Reduction of grain transportation subsidies. assistance to, farmers
for increase in rail freight costs, government position,
qu, 1238
Reduction of transportation subsidies. effect on Manitoba
economy. qu, 1238
Threat to sugar industry under new GATT rules. government
position. qu, 1110- 11, (r) 1240-41
Agriculture and Forestry Comnmittee report
4th. Interim. Future of agriculture in Canada, 1147-48
Carryover stocks. 1148
Environmental impact studies. 1148
Farm incomne protection. 1147, 1148
National Farmers' Union, 1148
Research and development. 1147
Saskatchewan Association of Rural Municipalities. 1148
Agriculture Canada. federal expenditure on research, tabled, 1192
Auditor General amendment bill C-83, 2421-22
Commissioner of the environment and sustainable development.
2421
Budget. Statement of Minister of Finance, inquiry, 589-92
Acid rain. 590
Agricultural subsidy reform, 591
Air pollution. 590
Conservation Reserve Programn in U.S., 592
Conversion subsidies. 592
Emission credits. 591
Energy and air pollution taxes. 590. 591
Environmental taxes. 589. 590
Forest die-back. 590
-Greeninga a budget. 589. 592
Leaded petrol taxation. 590
Retund system. 5~91
Sweden. 589
Task foi-ce, mandate. 589. 592

Spivak, Hon. Mira-Cont'd
Budget Implementation 1995 bill C-76. 1747-50. 1854-55
Canada Assistance Plan. 1748
Canada Health and Social Transfer 1748
Established Programs Financing. 1748
Federal transfers to provinces. 1748
Freshwater research. 1854-55
Medicare. 1750
Prairie farm land, 1750
Transportation costs. 1750
Budget 1995
Elimination of Crow Rate subsidy
Maintenance of grain economy in Manitoba, government
position, qu, 1286. (r) 1616
Economie
Possibility of assistance from Western
Diversification, government position. qu. 1286, (r) 1617
Statement of Minister of Finance. inquiry. 1237, 1261. 1307-09
Agriculture. 1308
Employment. 1308
Faimess. 1308
Medical services. 1307
Transfer payments. 1307
Welfare. 1307
Canada Council. Royal Winnipeg Ballet. loss of student grants due
to budget cuts. possibility of alternate funding.
government position, qu. 1895, (r) 2049-50
Canada Wildlife amendment bill C-24, 704
Conservation. 704
Definition of wildlife, 704
Enforcement. 704
Penalties, 704
Protected areas beyond territorial sea. 704
Canadian Environmental Assessment amendment bill C-56, 1139-41
Authority of new agency. 1141
Intervenor funding. 1140
Public participation, 1140
Use of previous environmental assessment work. 1140
Cultural Property Export and Import. Income Tax. Tax Court of
Canada amendment bill C-93, 2182-83
Energy, the Environment and Natural Resources Commitcee
National Protected Areas Strategy. authority to conduct study. 388
Environment
Cancellation of report on state of environmient, possibility of
discussion on sustainable development at G-7 summit,
government position, qu, 1743. (r) 2201
Greenhouse gas reducuion strategy. failure te, reach agreement,
government position, qu. 1239. (r) 1304
International Joint Commission. recommendations on toxicity
reduction in Great Lakes
Govemnment position. qu, 135, (r) 308
Guidelines for detection apparatus. government position,
qu, 356, (r) 456
Low-Ievel military flights over Labrador, impact on human health
and wildlife, st, 1572
Manitoba. oriented strand board plant. possibility of hearing
before independent review panel, governiment position.
qu, 1549, (r) 1694
Oriented Strandboard plant in Saskatchewan, extension of
environmental review to cover downstreamn effects in
Manitoba. government position. qu. 1633
Oriented Strandboard plants. cumulative effeet of harvesting on
boreal forests. govemment position. qu. 1633
Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. establishment of national
standards. governiment position. qu. 23 19
Sagkeeng First Nation. effeet of pulp milI pollution. governiment
position. qu. 218. (r) 454-55
St. Lawrence Vision 2000. reduction of pollution. government
position. qu. -304. (r) 555
Study of low-lcvel miilitary tlights in Labrador, government
response to criticism of process. qu. 848. (r) 1205

Spivak, Hon. Mira-Cont d
Environment-Cont'd
Excise. Customs, Tobacco Sales to Young Persons amendment
bu!1C-Il1. 672-73. 915 -16
Addictive qualities. 6721
Cancer deaths. 672
Costs of smokin. 672
'-Kiddy pack<s'. 672
Minimum age. 672
Plain packaging. 673
Smoking-related dîseases. 672
Women smokers. 672
Firearms bill C-68. 1908-09
Cost, 1908
Reg-istration. 1908. 1909
Foreign policy. humant rights in relation to tradte. st. 1797-98
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. intellectual property rights
and Thîrd World agricultural development. inquiry.
1450. 1513-14
Ethiopias, Seeds of Survival program., 1514
Foreign aid. 1514
Gene banks, 1514
Intellectual property protection. 1514
Mexico. 1514
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Developmient. 1514
Trade. 1514
UN Convention on Biodiversity. 1513
World prices. 1514
Hazardous Producîs Act. removal of' exemption toi tobacco.
presentaîton of petitions. 512. 662. 728. 790, 873, 1205
Health
Advertising of tobacco products. measures announced by minister.
st. 2460

Bovine g-rowth hormone
Evaluation of' health risk. representations from United States.
government position. qu. 2111-12, (r) 2385
Link between IGE- I and breast cancer. govern ment position.
qu. 1927. (r) 2081
Classification of tobacco as hazardous produci. government
position. qu. 43-44. 45
Closer control on tobacco products. government position,
qu. 1804.(r) 2079-80
Effect of reducing cigarette taxes. reclassification of tobacco as
hazardous product. st. 90
Implementation of experts' report on plain packaging of tobacco
products. consultations by Minister. povernment
position. qu. 1715
New legisiation 10 curtaîl tobacco consumrption. governmenî
position. qu. 2233
Tobacco Demand Reduction Strategy. distribution of study on
plain packaging. g-overnmenî position. qu. 1521.
(r) 1555
Tobacco Products Control Act. decision of Supreme Court of
Canada. st. 2066-67
Use of bovine growtb hormone somatotropin, delay in
investigation of' human healtb risks. governimenî
position. qu. 1840. (r) 2080
Human Resources Development. child care. federal ofter ot funding.
restrictions on categories of providers. government
position. qu. 2504
Indian affairs
Clean-up of Canadian National train wreck debris on Birdtail
Sioux Reserve. g-overnîneni position. qu. 1452-53.
(r) 1684
Leg-al action a,,ainsi Canadian Naional RaiiIwav. eux ernmnenî
position. (lu. 1453. (r) 1684
I ntcrnatio nalI ti ,dc. i cpiexcIrom p anncd cmbairgo on Ca naCi an
I ors. posi biIi iv ot' ban n ing Ic ebol haps. gos ci-nincn i
IC
poSitiof. Clu.230~5

Spivak, Hon. Mira-Coint'i
lnter-Parliamentary Union. Ninety-second cC)nterence. Copenhagen.
Denmark. înquîîy. 925-26
Fourtb World Conference on Women. 925
"~20/20-~ formula. 926
Women in political life. 925
World Summit for Social Developmenî. 926
Legal and Constitutional Affairs Commitîee report
I6th. Firearms bill C-68. with 14 amdts. 2261, 2262. 2284-87
Aboriginal peuples. 2284. 2287
Decrîmînalization. 2285. 2286
Museums. 2261. 2262
National unity. 2286
Regional representation. 2286
Registration of handguns. 2284
Senate's role. 2286
Manitoba. federal environmental assessmenî of' forestry projects.
glovemment position. qu. 2405
Migratory Birds Convention. 1994 bill C-23. 701-02
Aboriginal rights. 701, 702
Detorestation. 702
Fines. 701
Urban sprawl. 702
Molgat. Hon. Gildas ., felicitations on appointment as Speaker of'
the Senate. 949
National Day of Remembrance
Fiftb anniversary of tragedy at l'Ecole Polytechnique. st. 1054-55
Sixth anniversary of tragedy at l'Ecole Polytechnique. si. 2413-14
Pearson International Airport Agreements bill C-22. 816
Prince Edward Island, fixed link. m to amend Constitution of'
Canada. 204-06
Backup or alternative service. 204
Bridge design, 205
Cost. 204. 205
Environmental evaluation assessment. 205
Ferry service. 205. 205. 206
Ice build up. 205
Revenue Canada
Amount ol export tax paid by tobacco manutacturers. net losses to
federal treasury. "-overnment position. qu. 1058,
(r) 1190
Changes t0 excise tax on tobacco products. inequaliîy of treatmenî
of provinces. governmenî position. qu. 995, (r> 1169-70
Status of Wornen. annivcrsary of Privy Councîl decision,
congratulations to winncrs of 1995 Persons Awards.
st, 2116-17
Winnipeg. Manitoba, outstanding communiîy support for the
performing arts. st, 2608
World Trade Organization Agreement Implementation bill C-57,
1071-72
Manitoba Sugar Co.. 1072
Sugar industry. 1071
U.S. tariff schedule. 1071, 1072

Split Lake Cree First Nation Flooded Land bill C-36. fi. 912:
2r, 940-44; ref to com. 944:. rep without amdt. 1039:
3r, 1058; r.a.. chap. 42. 1994. 1177
Adjudication process, 942
Arbitration. 943. 944
Band-specific agreements. 942
Compensation. 942, 943
Land tifle. 942
Manitoba Norîhern Flood Agreement. 942. 943
Moneys admninistcred by band trust funds. 942
Speakers: Senatoî s
Boxa. Peter. 943
Cai xîairs. Shairon. 940) 43. I158
Jessinman. IDuncan J. 943-44
Moîgai. Gildas L.. 943« 944

INDEX
Sport
Memorial Cup champions. congratulations to Kamloops Blazers
Hockey Team. st. 481
Men's World Curling champions. congratulations to Rick FoIk*s
rink. st, 300
Women's World Curling champions. congratulations to Sandra
Peterson's rink. st. 300

Stanbury, Hon. Richard J.
Address in reply to Speech from the Throne. 78-81
Adjournment. 619, 728, 790, 836
Agriculture and Forestry Committee
Authority to permit coverage of proceedings by electronic media.
739
Aird. Q.C., the late John Black, tributes. 1597
Answers to Order Paper Questions tabled. 517, 765
Appropriation No. 2. 1994-95 bill C-39, 633, 699. 739
Budget, Statemnent of Minister of Finance. inquiry, 589. 607
Business of the Senate. 510. 541. 556. 651. 652. 739. 800, 836. 837
Adjoumment, 511, 584, 585. 679-80, 681, 687, 763. 764
Canada Business Corporations amendment bill C-12. 728
Canada Remembers. fiftieth anniversary of D-Day. st, 583
Canada Student Finance Assistance bill C-28, 743
Canada's Defence Policy. authority to change date of presentation of
final report, 728
Canadian Film Development Corporation amendment bill C-3 1,662
Code of Conduct. Special Joint Committee, mi to appoint. 1883-84
Conflict of lnterests. report of Special Joint Committee presented. 41
Delayed Answers to Oral Questions. 554. 585. 655. 765. 833
Department of Labour amendment bill C-30, 757
Electoral Boundaries Readjustment. 1995 bill C-69, vote deferred on
mn adjoumn debate. 1849-51;- point of order, 1901
to
Estimates, 1994-95
Supplementary Estimates (A), tabled. 510, ref to com. 511
Frith, Hon. Royce, tributes on resignation from the Senate and
appointment as High Commissioner for Canada to the
United Kingdom. 842
Income Tax, Income Tax Application Rules, Canada Pension Plan,
Excise Tax.
Canada
Business Corporations.
Unemployment Insurance amendment bill C-27, 655
Lang, Hon. Daniel A.. tributes on retirement. 616
Legal and Constitutionat Affairs Committee
Motion instructing com to table final rep re C-22, 2429-32
Motion instructing com to table final rep re C-69, point of order.
2427.,2428
Reports
8th, Pearson International Airport Agreements bill C-22. 813.
814
14th. Electoral Boundaries Readjustment. 1995 bill C-69,
m and message from Commons, mi in amdt. 2027-29
I 6th. Firearmns bu!l C-68, with 14 amdts. 2308-09
Miscellaneous Statute Law Amendments, ref to com, 5 10
National Finance Committee report
6th, Main Estimates 1994-95. 657. 738
Neiman, Hon. Joan. tribute on retirement. 2041-42
Pearson International Airport Agreements bill C-22, 816. 817-19.
823.,827
Compensation, 817
Quebec. m for recognition as distinct society, 2476-77
Senate. absence of Government Leader. 527
Social Affairs. Science and Technologuy Committee
Authority to meet during sitting of the Senate. 739
Transport. search and rescue. replacement of Sea King helicopter
fleet. documents tabled. 604
Veterans affairs. ni to urge government to provide site for Canadian
Vietnam Veterans* Memnorial. 520. 521
Walker. PC.. the late Hon. David James. tribute. 2064

Stanbury, Hon. Richard .1.Con è"d
Young Offenders. Criminal Code amendiment bill C-37. 1289-91.
1859
Aduit court. 1290
Community-based sentences. 1290
lmprisonmrent. 1290
Information, shared and private. 1291
Maximum penalties. 1290
Older and younger young offenders. 1290
Open or secure custody. 1290
Parole, 1290
Protection of public. 1289. 1290
Protection of young people's rights. 1289
Rehabilitation. 1290
Retention of records. 1291
Victim impact statements. 1290-91
Violent and nonviolent crime. 1290
Stanley Cup
Best wishes to Vancouver Canucks in National Hockey League
championship. st. 482
Participation of New Jersey Devils in the play-offs. st. 481
State of culture ini Canada, inquiry. 1500
Status of Women
Anniversary of Privy Council decision. congratulations to winners of
1995 Persons Awards. st. 2115-17
Request for breakdown of program spending for current and next
fiscal years. qu. 1376, (r) 1503
Twenty-fifth anniversary of tabling of report of Royal Commission,
st, 2090
Stewart, Hon. John B.
Agriculture and Forestry Committee
Authority to examine the future of agriculture in Canada. 596
Mexico. 596
Shared expenses with Commons committee. 596
Appropriation No. 4. 1994-95 bil] C-79. 1455. 1456. 1457-58
Banking. Trade and Commerce Committee reports
l3th. study of state of Canadian financial system. 1048, 1049
Superintendent of Financial Institutions. 1048
27th. Small Business Loans amendment bill C-99. without amdt.
2538
Budget 1995. Statement of Minister of Finance. inquiry. 1269
Business of the Senate, 207. 1081
Adjoumment. 1775-76
Canada's Foreign Policy. Special Joint Committee
Motion to appoint. 255
Certified General Accountants' Association bill S-8. Ir, 12 10
Certified General Accountants' Association of Canada, presentation
of petition. 1204
Coastal Fisheries Protection amendment bill C-29, 459; considered
in Comimittee of the Whole. 471, 472. 473
Fishing zone 3N. 459
Criminal Code amendment (dangerous intoxication) bill S-6, 988
Cultural Property Export and Import, Income Tax. Tax Court of
Canada amendment bill C-93, 2183
Appeal percentage, 2183
Average annual dollar value of gifts. 2183
Criteria for evaluation. 2183
Department of Foreign Affairs and International Trade bill C-47,
1379-80
Spending estimates. 1379. 1380
Electoral Boundaries Readjustmlent. 1995 bill C-69. vote deferred on
ni to adlourn debae. 1846-47: point of order. 1898.
1899
Ener-y. the Environnment and Natural Resour-ces Conmîttee
National Protected Areas Strategy. authority to conduct study. 387
Excise Tax. Incomie Tax amiendînent bill C-103. 25 10

Stewart, Hon. John B.-C<>n, 'd
First Nations Government bill S- 10. 1619. 1622
Royal Recommendation. 1622
Foreign affairs. request for newly appointed Ambassador te lsrael
and Cyprus to appear before committec. 1983, 1984
Foreign Affairs Committee
Authority to examine varions consequences ni European Union.
adopted. 1678
Authority to extend date for final report, 1356, 1632
Authority to meet during sittings of the Senate. 912. 972. 988.
989. 1084. 1085. 1854. 1925. 2230. 2416, 2487
Authority to monitor and report upon the Canada-United States
Free Trade Agreement and the North American Free
Trade Agreement, 354. 390
Canada-United States Free Trade Agreement and North American
Free Trade Agreement. authority to table final report.
1924
Reports
Ist. expenses incurred during- 3rd Session. 34th Parliament.
tabled. 77
2nd. Crown Liability and Proceedings amnendment bill C-4,
wîthout amdt. 450
3rd. Budget. Canada-United States Free Trade Agreement and
the North American Free Trade Agreement. 549. 589
See Journals of the Senate
4th. World Trade Organization Agreement Implementation
bill C-57. without amdt but witb observations and
recommendations. 1163
Sth. Department of Foreign Affairs and International Trade
bill C-47. without amdt. 1355-56
6th. Budget. study re European Union. 1798, adopted, 1885
Sec Journals of thc Senate
7th. Chemicai Wcapons Convention Implementation bill C-87.
1923
8th. Free Trade in the Amerîcas. confirmation of iabling of
report. 2067
Forum for Younge Canadians. appointment of Mark Audcent as chair
Of the board. st. 870
Income Tax amendment bill C-9. 327-28
Internai Economny. Budgets and Administration Committee report
22nd. respecting mi to print Volume I of Special Joint Committee
on Reviewing Canada's Foreign Poiicy. 1607
Karla Homoîka bill S-il. 2142-43
Retroactive law. 2143
Legal and Constitutional Affairs Comnmittee
Motion instructing com to table final rep re C-69. point ef order,
2424-25
Notice of motion instructing- com te table final rep re C-69, point
of order. 2377, 2378
Report
2nd. Electorai Boundaries Readjustment Suspension. 1994
bill C- 18. 497
Maintenance of Railway Operations. 1995 bill C-77, considered in
Committee of the Whole. 1439. 1440, 1443, 1444
National Defence Policy. proposed Speciai Joint Committee
Appointment. 152
National Library amendment bill C-26. 530
Officiai languages. access te francophones te Internet network.
qu. 1651-52
Ontario Court Generai Division. mi te strîke special commîttee te
examine and report npon the conduct and behaviour ot
certain officers and Justices. point 0f ordei. 1628
Pcar son Aiiport Agreements Special Committee report
2nd. Address te His Excellcncy thc Governoi Genciai rcqucstîrin'
documcnt,,. 2143. 2192. 2193
Pcarson Inter national Airport Agreemcntî; bill C-22 821i 827-30
Reoyai Rcconimcndation. 827. 828. 829. 830)
Poi ni 0f oldei. nies ush ch appy te join t conmnittccs. li 7

Stewart, Hon. John B.-CoIltd
Prince Edward Island, fixed link. m te amend Constitution et
Canada. 171-72. 229. 242-43
Constîtutionai obligation. 242
Continuous communication. 171. 172
Design changes. 17 1. 172. 229
Wood Islands-Caribou ferry
Reviewing Canada's Foreign Policy
Motion te print Volume I of Special Joint Commîttee report.
1246. 1247.,1314
Ruling by Speaker of the House of Commons. point of order.
1017
Senate
Absence of approval for varions preleects. inquiry, 1053
Powers of internaI Economy Committee. 1053
Impact of decision of House of Comnions te cease publication of
cemmîttee proceedings. inquiry. 1645
Participation in joint comrmttees. 1645
SmaIl Business Loans amendment bill C-99. 2539
Transport
Measure te terroinate raiiway strike. considered in Committee of
the Whole. 1388. 1389. 1396, 1411. 1412. 1413, 1415,
1419, 1420. 1425. 1426, 1427
Pearson International Airport, m te strike Speciai Committee te
inquire inte privatization contrats, 1568-69. 1579.
i1580
Repairs te Ports of Halifax and Saint John. government position.
qu. 97
Veterans affairs. m te urge government te provide site for Canadian
Vietnam Veterans' Memoruai. 520
Stollery, Hon. Peter A.
Excise Tax. Income Tax amendment bill C-103, 2214-16, 2218
Advertîsing revenue s. 2214, 2215
Anti-avoidance. 2216
Canadian magazine indu stry. 2214. 2215
Circulation revenues. 2215
Split runs. 2214. 2215
Spo(rtsý Illustrated. 2214. 2215
Frith. Hon. Royce. tributes on resignation from the Senate and
appointment as High Commîssioner for Canada te the
United Kingdom. 842
Internai Economy. Budgets and Administration Committee report
22nd. respecting mi te print Volume of Special Joint Committee
on Reviewing- Canada's Foreign Policy. 1604
LeBiane. P.C.. Hon. Roméo. tributes on appointment as Governor
General et Canada. 968
Leblanc, the late Hon. Fernand E.. tributes. 2553
Mexico, present state of affairs. inquiry. 1339
NAFTA. 1510. 1511. 1513
Politics. 1511, 1512
Pearson Aimeort Agreements, Special Senate Commîttee report
lst. Budget
Peint ehorder 1771. 1772
Precîncts of Parhiament. locking of East Block doors. gevernim nt
position. qu. 1616
Stratton, Hon. Terri'
Banking. Trade and Commerce Cemmittee
Autherîty te extend date of presentation of final report. 1022
Budget
Chan'-es te mIles governing RRSP contributions, position et
government. qu. 96
Statement et Minuster of Finance. inqniry. 427-28
l)eCueît. 427
i )emecracy. i oie and future. 427
Indivîdualisun. 427
Inflation irate. 427
intei est raies,. 428
Rceu-onalismi. 427

INDEX
Stratton, Hon. Terry-Conr 'd
Budget 1995. statement of Minister of Finance, inquiry. 1608-1l
Debt and deficit reduction. 1608, 1609
Defence. 1611
Fairness. 1608. 1610
Health care system. 1608. 1610
Transfer payments. 1608, 1610
City of Winnipeg, tribute to Susan Thompson on re-election as
Mayor. st. 2165
Customs Taiff amendment bill C-5. 226
General Preferential Tariff. 226
Defence. safety of Sea King helicopters, government position.
qu. 2069
Excise Tax amendment bill C- 13. 367-68
Businesses. 368
Charities. 368
Financial institutions. 368
Goods and Services Tax. 367
Rabbits, 368
Finance, taxation of registered retirement savings plans. st. 918, 930
Firearms legislation. st, 2263
Johnson, the late Dr. George. tribute. 1976
Legal and Constitutional Affairs Committee report
16th, Firearms bill C-68, with 14 amdts. 2260. 2287. 2301-03
Confiscation without compensation. 2260
Governor in Council. 2302
Native people. 2287
Registration. 2301
Violence, 2302
Manitoba Act, one hundred and twenty-fifth anniversary of
legisiation, st, 1630
Revenue
Capital gains election. dissemination of information to public.
request for studies on effectiveness of measure.
qu, 1237
Income tax. capital gains election. effect on seniors, qu. 1237,
(r) 1474
Transport
Search and rescue. replacement of Sea King helicopter fleet.
governiment position, qu. 422, (r) 556
Winnipeg, congratulations on efforts to retain Jets Hockey Team.
St. 1649
Superintendent of Bankruptcy, responsibilities regarding NSC Diesel
Power Inc.. tabled. 1601
Supreme Court of Canada, decision on privileges of the court.
inquiry. 2176. 2356-60
Solicitor-client privilege, 2356, 2357
Speaker: Senator
Cools, Anne C.. 2176, 2356-58, 2359-60
Sylvain, Hon. John (resigned Jan. 31/96)
Banking, Trade and Commerce Committee
Authority to meet during sitting of the Senate. 688. 790
Authority to study state of Canadian financial system, 132. 177
Authority to table interim report on state of financial systemt in
Canada, 1890. adopted, 1975
Export Development Act regulations
Authority to extend date of presentation of final report of
comrnittee. 132. 176-77
Reports
I1th. Canada Business Corporations amendment bill C- 12,
without amdt. 686
I2th. Excise. Customs, Tobacco Sales to Young Persons
amendment bill C-Il1. without amdt. 897
I3th. study of state of Canadian financial systemn. 1007-08
Co-insurance. 1007
Collecting premiurns. 1008
t)eposit insurance. 1008

Sylvain, Hon. John-Conr 'd
Banking, Trade and Commerce Committee-Cont'd
Government support, 1008
Life and Health Insurance Policyholder Protection Fund.
1007. 1008
Rehabilitation. 1008
l4th. Department of lndustry bill C-46, without amdt. 1181
l7th. Canada-United States Tax Convention Act. 1984 bill S-9.
without amdt. 1547
I 8th. study of state of Canadian financial system. adopted.
1973
I9th. Income Tax amendment bill C-70, without amdt, 1889
2Oth. Business Development Bank of Canada bill C-91. without
amdt. 1980
21st. Excise Tax. Excise amendment bill C-90, without amdt.
2207
22nd. Income Tax Conventions Implementation. 1995
bill C-105. without amndt. 2207
24th. Cultural Property Export and Import, Income Tax. Tax
Court of Canada amendment bill C-93, without amdt.
2246
Business Development Bank of Canada bill C-91, 1995-96
Canada Remembers. fiftieth anniversary of D-Day. st, 582
Canada's Defence Policy. Special Joint Committee report,
1099-1102
Aerospace industry. 110 1
Defence budget. 110 1
Defence exports. 110 1
National Defence White Paper, 1099. 1101, 1102
NATO, 1100
Gun control legislation, presentation of petitions. 2208
Halifax MKVII bomber, recovery and renovation of aircraft sunk in
Lake Mjosa. Norway, during World War Il. st, 1581-82.
2130
1Income Tax Conventions Implementation, 1995 bill C-b10. 2179
Route for buis of this nature, 2179
Marshall, Hon. Jack, tributes on retirement. 980
National defence
Disciplinary practices in Canadian Armed Forces. government
position, qu. 1184-86. (r) 1473
Inquiry into activities of Canadian Airborne Regiment.
govemment position, qu, 1185
Length of tours of peacekeeping forces, request for information.
qu. 1375, (r) 1552
Peacekeeping couts charged to departanental budget. government
position. qu, 1213, (r) 1342-43
Peacekeeping in former Yugoslavia. withdrawal of troops.
government policy. qu, 1708
Peacekeeping operations in former Yugoslavia, demise of
Canadian Airborne Regiment, qu. 1374
Proportion of non-military items in departmental budget.
goverinent position, qu. 995, (r) 1240
Request for answer, 1213
National Unity. result of Quebec Referendum. st, 2149
Tributes on resignation fromt Senate, 2551-52, 2606, 2608
Teîefilm Canada, cuts in funding of Abitibi -Témi scami ngue
International Film Festival, st, 1659
Teller, Paul, President and CEO, Canadian National
Transport. measure to terminal railway strike, considered in
Committee of the Whole. 1382-84, 1385-86. 1387.
1388. 1389-90. 1391
Thériault, Hon. L. Norbert
Address in reply to Speech from the Throne. 14 1. 142
Budget Implementation. 1995 bill C-76. 1810. 1811
Coastal Fisheries Protection amendment bill C-29. 460-61.
considered in Committee of the Whole. 473
Overfishing. 460
Quotas. 461

Thériault, Hon. L. Norbert-Con; '1
Customs Tariti amencdment bill C-5. 225-26
General Preferential Tarif., 225
Imports. 225
David. Hon. Paul. tributes on retirement trom the Senate. 1161-62
Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Suspension bill. 1994. British
Columbia. concernis ot constituents. 394
Euthanasia and Assisted Suicide Special Committee report
2nd. Power to hold occasional meetings in camiera. adopted. 745
Excise Tax amendment bill C- 13. 366-67. 368. 369
Agricultural sector. 366, 367
Businesses. seasonal and part-time, 366
Charities, 366, 367
Goods and Services Tax. 366
Homemaker services. 366
Input tax credits. 367
Rabbits. 366. 367
Sales tax reform. 366
Firearms legislation. remarks mnade hy Hon. Allan Rock. 1572. 1573
First Nations Govemment bill S- 10, 1619
Human Resources Development. child care. federal offer of funding.
fiscal inequaliîy among provinces. qu. 2502
Income Tax, Income Tax Application Rules. Canada Pension Plan.
Canada
Business
Corporations.
Excise
Tax.
Unemployment Insurance amendment bill C-27, 558-59
Automobile operating cost benefits. 558
-~Cross-border purchase buttertly". 559
Depreciable property. 559
Life insurance companies. 559
Loss of source of income. 559
Mining, 559
Residence rule. 559
Retirement income plans, 558
Scientific research and experimental development. 558. 559
Securîties. 559
Tax system. 558
Technical amendiments. 558
InternaI Economy. Budgets and Administration Commiîtee report
22nd, respecting m to print Volume 1 of Special Joint Committee
on Reviewing Canada's Foreign Policy. 1604. 1607
LeBlane. P.C.. Hon. Roméo, tributes on appoinîment as Governor
General of Canada. 971
Leg-al and Constitutional Afi airs Committee report
Notice of motion to instruci com 10 table tinal report re bill C-69.
point of order. Speaker's ruling. 2393
Report
2nd. Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Suspension. 1994
bill C- 18. 493, 497
Marshall. Hon. Jack, tributes on retîrement. 979-80
National Finance Commîttee report
4th. Supplemenîary Estimates (A). 1994-95. adopted. 625
National uniîy
Quebec referendum. coverage of events hy CBC French network.
st, 2414-15
Resuit of Quebec referendum. st, 2164-65
Social programs in Canada. inquiry. 2416, 2599-605
Veterans affairs. fiftieth anniversary of D-Day. inquiry. 409
Veterans Review and Appeal Board bill C-67. 1668-69

Tkachuk, Hon. David
Ahorîg-inal peoples. co-management agreements in Saskatchewan.
requesi for particulars. qu. 1706-07
Address in reply to Speech trom the Throne. 117-20
Aîziiculîure Food Canada. tahled. 2(083
Appiopiation No. 4. 19914-9 bill C-~79. l453-5. 1456. 1458
Buidoet
l)cl liiion
of tax oopioIle. clu. 123(7
s
Ta s iOecCases toi- wca liii Canad ian s. go\eiiriiiient positiion.
qtî. 1223-24

Tkachuk, Hon. David-Coni'd
Budget 1995
Elimination of Crow Rate subsidy
Eftect on grain shippîng ports. governmenî position. qu. 1284.
(r) 1360-61
End of grain mairketing mionopoly of Canadian Wheat Board.
governmenî position. qu. 1285
Ratio of' spending culs 10 tax increases. government position.
qu. 1251
Statement of Minister of Finiance. iîîquiiy 1267. 1268. 1311-12
Seven-to-one ratio. 1267. 1312
Status of RRSP as tax loophole. government position. qu. 1237.
1238& (r) 1549-50
Budget Plan, prograin funding. tabled. 1170
Budgetaîy savings lor- regional development agencies. tabled. 2092
Canada Assistance Plan and established programs financing. levels
of entitlemneni and turther details. tabled. 1843
Canadian Broadcastîng Corporation. annual report 1993/94.
production costs. tabled. 1070
Canadian Radio-televîsion and Telecommunications Commission.
issuance ot specialty licences. si, 665
CitiLenship and Immigration Canada. tabled. 2083
Departmenî of Foreign Affairs and International Trade. details of
budgetary savings under 1995 budget plan. tabled. 1601
Desmarais. the late Hon. Jean Noël. tribute. 2061
Diefenbaker, the late Rt. Hon. John George. st. 2087-88
Fac ilities at Banff National Park. tabled. 1555
Facilities at Prince Albert National Park. tabled. 1555
Facilities for employees ai Jasper National Park. tabled. 1555
Federal-Provincial Fiscal Arrangements and Federal Post-Secondary
Education and Health Contributions amendmenî
bill C-3. 223-25
Equalization progranî. 223. 224. 225
Federal-provincial relations. administration of' infrastructure
prograni. g-overrnment policy. qu. 95. (r> 138
Firearmis legislation. siatement attrihuted 10 Prime Mînîsier in
caucus on voting of dissentin- menmbers. governimeni
position qu. 1777
First Nations Govemment bill S-10. 1487, 1602. 1618, 1620-21
Royal Recommendation. 1620. 1621
Government Organization (federal agencies) bill C-65. 1948
Hall. the late Hon. Mr. Justice Emmett M.. tributes. 2263
Health Canada. savîngs in 1995 Budget Plan. qu. 17 10
Human Resources Developmenî
British Columbia, imposition of waiting perîod tor payments
under Canada Assistance Plan, suspension ot transter
payments. gaovernment position. qu. 2417-18,
(r> 2609- 10
Details of hudgetary saving-s under 1995 budgetary plan. tabled.
1637
Indian Attairs and Northern Development. savings in 1995 budget
plan. tabled. I1652
lndustry Canada. details of' budgetary savings undeî 1995 budget
plan. îabled. 1637
Infrastructure program
Cutback in goverroment spending. effect on employment.
govemme nt position. qu. 356. 357. (r) 850
Saskatchewan Rural Roads Project. announcement hy Deputy
Premier. si. 393
Source of funds f'or job creation. govemrment position. qu. 4(X0 Oh
Justice
Authorits for statemeni on political non-involvemeni in police
investigations. government position. 2466
Politîcal non-involvement in police investigations. statement of
mninisier to media. goveî nolient position. qu. -2465
Sale of Airhos aircraIt Io Air Canada. allegced conspil acy 10
dcii aud lederal gos Ci-nnin. approach to Swss5
Loris i
llct
lori 111101nation. auihoî lty loi- pi occuic
Iol oIos d o ionn position. qu. 2487-88
Legal and (ConstituitionailAIais Coiniiicc ireport
I 6th. Fîîcaris bill C-08. ss 14 amidis. 2
îîh
130ý 08

INDEX
Tkachuk, Hon. David-Coni'd
National finance
Amount of deficit for 1993-94. government position, qu, 552
Necessity to re-examine system for approving Estimates.
st. 1486-87

Reduction in deficit announced by minister. ramifications for
transfer payments to provinces, government position,
qu. 2440, 2441
1995 Budget Plan
Particulars on savings for Fisheries and Oceans, tabled. 1695
Particulars on savings respecting Department of Canadian
Heritage, tabled, 1695
Parks Canada
Location and composition of meetings, tabled, 1191
Meetings held by officials in Wolfville and Digby. Nova Scotia,
tabled, 1652
User fees, government position, qu, 875. 934. (r) 974-75,
(r) 1168-69
Revenue Canada, details of budgetary savings under 1995 budget
plan, tabled, 1601
Saskatchewan, appointment of Lieutenant-Governor, nature of
appointment, govemment position, qu, 321. 322
Senate
Amendments to Bill C-22. refusal by Minister to appear before
Senate Committee, qu, 1299
Tribute to departing page, 393
Solicitor General, RCMP marketing contract with Disney
Corporation, request for particulars, qu, 1958-59,
(r) 2082-83
Solicitor General of Canada, tabled, 2083
Sport
Men's World Curling Champions, congratulations to Rick Folk's
rink, st. 300

Women's World Curling Champions, congratulations to Sandra
Peterson's rink, st, 300

Transport
Federal-Provincial Strategic Highway Improvement Program,
policy on diversion of funds to undesignated projects,
request for particulars. qu, 1682, 1683, (r) 1990
Measure to terminate railway strike, considered in Committee of
the Whole, 1386, 1387
Pearson Airport Agreements
Discussion held by members of Liberal election campaign
committee. govemment position, qu, 1491
Personal knowledge of Leader of Government on policy
proposal. qu, 1490-91
Transport Canada, details of budgetary savings under 1995 budget
plan, tabled, 1601
Western Economic Diversification Canada, report of Auditor
General, mandate of agency, government policy,
qu, 2268
Tobacco Products Restrictions bill S-14. Ir, 2437; 2r. 2536-37,
2582-84, ref to com, 2584

Addictive substance, 2537
Anti-tobacco advertising, 2583
Cost to Canadian economy, 2537
Lung cancer. 2537
Nicotine. 2537

Second-hand smoke, 2584
Smuggling, 2583

Tobacco taxes, 2583
Ultralight cigarettes, 2583
Speakers: Senators
Haidasz, Stanley. 2536-37. 2584
Kelly. William M., 2582-84
Tobin, P.C., M.P., Hon. Brian, Minister of Fisheries and Oceans
Coastal Fisheries Protection amendment bill C-29, considered in
Committee of the Whole. 463-64. 465-66. 467. 468.
469, 470. 471. 472. 473. 474-75

Tourism, effect of budget cuts, government position, qu, 284-85
Training Initiatives Program, amount of funds available from Human
Resources Development, government position. qu, 1633.
(r) 1695
Transport
Abandonment of holdings on Partridge Island. New Brunswick,
government position. qu. 1534. (r) 1617
Abolition of Atlantic Region Freight Assistance, possibility of notice
to stakeholders, qu, 1212. (r) 1473-74
Ad Hoc Parliamentary Committee on Lightstations
Consultations in British Columbia, st, 1037
Final report tabled, 1837
Application of International Civil Aviation Organization Standards at
smaller airports, government position, qu. 1520,
(r) 1685
Atlantic Region Freight Assistance Program. request for impact
analysis. government position, qu, 1057
Request for answer, 1167
Automated navigational and weather systems. request for
documentation, government position, qu, 1165,
(r) 2070-71
Automated Weather Observation Systems, report of Senate
Committee, request for response from ministers,
qu, 2233-34
Cancellation of winter ferry service between Yarmouth, Nova Scotia
and Bar Harbour. Maine, st, 2173-74

Condition of St. Lawrence Seaway, government policy. qu, 97,
(r) 166
Destaffing of lightstations in British Columbia
Environmental impact assessment, government position, qu, 1040.
(r) 1189
Request for judicial inquiry, government position, qu, 1133-34,
(r) 1191
Existence of any impediment to redevelopment of Pearson Airport,
government position, qu, 1303. (r) 1361-62
Failure of minister to properly brief Prime Minister on reports
respecting Pearson Airport Agreements, government
position, qu, 1488
Federal-Provincial Strategic Highway Improvement Program
Canada-Nova Scotia Agreement, diversion of funds to Cape

Breton Project, govemment position, qu, 1650, (r) 2046

Discussions between ministers on diversion of funds from Nova

Scotia Highway Project, request for particulars,
qu, 1660, (r) 2046
Diversion of funds to Cape Breton Project, possible interpretation
by Auditor General of Canada, government position,

qu. 1650
Fulfilment of Red Book promises, government position.
qu, 1661-62
Introduction of toll booths on Trans-Canada Highway. qu, 1661,
(r) 2046
Nova Scotia

Diversion of funds, request for examination by Auditor General
of Canada, motion, 1678, 1696-1701; withdrawn. 1736
Fleur-de-lis Trail, 1696, 1697, 1697, 1700, 1701
Highway 104, 1697, 1698. 1699, 1700
Toils, 1698, 1699
Speakers: Senators
Buchanan, John. 1700-01
Comeau, Gerald J.. 1698-1700
Forrestall, J. Michael. 1696-98
Diversion of funds from designated project
Alternate methods of funding, government position.
qu, 1680. (r) 2047
Knowledge of transaction by Prime Minister, government
position. qu. 1679-80. (r) 2047
Diversion of funds to projects not covered by agreements.
government position. qu. 1680-8 1. (r) 2047

Transport-Coni 't
Federal-Provincial Strategîc Highway Improvement Programt
Freezing of funds to await outeome of inquiry of AuditorGeneral. government position. qu. 1708 (r) 2048
Request for answers. qu. 1926
Restoration of funding f0 designated project
Request for answer. qu. 1961
Request for update. qu. 1690- 91, 1926. (r) 1991-92. 1993
Return of funds to designated project. government position,
qu. 1650-51. (r) 1988
Return of funds to designated highway pro îect. governiment
position. qu. 1662
Policy on diversion of funds to undesignated prqjects. request for
particulars. qu. 1682-83, (r) 1990
Propriety of' intervention by Minister of Public Works.
government position. qu. 1660-61
Report of Auditor General on diversion of funds
Government position. qu. 2266
Pertinent documents tabled. 2559
Request l'or tabling of pertinent documents. qu. 2266
Strategic Highway Improvement Program. application of tolls on
Canadian highways. tabled. 1695
Importance of passage of Bill C-22 to development of Pearson
International Airport. government position. qu. 1285
Institution of public inquiry. government position. qu. 1472
Measure to terminate railway strike. m to debate ref te, Committee of
the Whole. 1373, 1382; considered in Committee of the
Whole. Hon. Eymard G. Corbin in the Chair. Mr. Paul
Tellier. Mr. Teriy Leneker. Mr. Gary Fane, Mi. Terry W.
Ivany. Mr. Tim Secord. Mr. George Hucker. Mr. Rob P.
Ritchie. Mr. David Flicker taking part in the debate.
1382-1421; rep. 1421; m to debate ref to Committee of
the Whole. 1422: considered in Committee of the
Whole, Hon. Eymard G. Corbin in the Chair. Mr. Don
J. Bujold. Ms Maureen Prebinski taking part in the
debate. 1422-28; rep. 1428;
Speakers: Senators
Andreychuk. A. Raynell. 1388, 1-390, 1405, 1406. 1420. 1421
Beaudoîn. Gerald A.. 1426
Bryden. John G.. 1389. 1399, 1400. 1403. 1404. 1413. 1414.
1415-16
Comeau. Gerald J..
1390. 1391.ý 1398. 1404, 1405. 1416
Corbin, Eymard G.. 142L. 1428
De Bane. Pierre. 1395
Doyle, Richard J.. 1427
Fairbaim, Joyce. 1382
Graham, B. Alasdair. 1373, 1382. 1401
Haidasz. Stanley, 1390
Jessiman. Duncan J.. 1385. 1386
Keon. Wilbert J.. 1411
Kinsella. NoëlI A.. 1384. 1394-95. 1403. 1410, 1411. 142-0,
1426-27
Lucier. Paul, 1393. 1394
Lynch-Staunton. John. 1382. 1383, 1384. 1392. 1-39-3. 1397,
1398, 1399, 1402. 1403. 1409, 1410, 1417, 1418, 1421,
1424.,1425
Murray. LoweIl. 1387. 1396-97, 1398
Oliver. Donald H.. 1388. 1393, 1404
OIson. H.A.. 1385, 1418, 1419
Prud'homme, Marcel. 1400-01. 1406
Stewart. John B.. 1388. 1389. 1396, 1411. 1412. 1413. 1415.
1419. 1420. 1425. 1426. 1427
Tkachuk. David. 1386. 1387
and witnesses in Comi-nittee of the Whole
Buýjold.
l)on
J..
National
Scictary-Treasurer.
Transportation communication,, Union.
1422-24.
Fane. Gai ý. l)îîector. Canadian Aoîoworkcî s Union.
1391-93. 1394. f
395-96. 1397-99. 14(X). 1401
Flickc. D)a\ id. Vicc Piesident oi'Go\c
enient Affair. CP.
419

Transport-Cointd
Measure to, termînate railway stnike-Cont'd
Hucker. George. V.P.. National Legîslative Representatîve.
International Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers.
1409, 1410. 1411, 1412, 1413. 1414. 1415. 1416
lvany. Terry W.. President and CEO. VIA Rail. 1401-02.
1403-05, 1406
Leneker. Terry. Chief Executive Officei. Canadian
National. 1385. 1386. 1388. 1389. 1-390
Ritchie. Rob PR.President and Chief Executive Officer
CR. 1416-17. 1418. 1419-20, 1421
Secord. Tim. Legislative Director. United Transportation
Union. 1406-09. 1410. 1411. 1412. 1413, 1414, 1415.
1416
Tellier. Paul, President and CED. Canadian National.
1382-84, l385-86. 1387. 1388. 1389-90. 1391
Merger of Canadian Coast Guard with Department of Fisheries and
Oceans. government position. qu. 2112. (r) 2252
Necessary repairs to Pearson International Airport. governrnent
position. 187-88. (r) 287
Nova Scotia. funds for Wentworth Valley Highway Prolect.
government position. qu. 1548-49. (r) 1709- 10
Pearson Airport Agreements
Authorship of departmental report. request tor clarification.
qu. 1469-70. (r) 1534
Definition of legisiative solution. government position. qu. 1471
Discrepancies in Nixon Report. governmnent position, 1520
Discussion held by members of Liberal election campaign
committee. government position. qu. 1491
Evidence of Mr. Matthews before Senate commîttee. government
position. qu. 2100
Extent of knowledge of Mr. Nixon at time of review. governiment
position. qu. 1488
Function of Prime Minîster at meeting wîth Matthews Group.
qu. 1530
Implications of alleged involveinent of Prime Minîster. request f'or
clarification. qu. 1472
Instructions to Mr. Nixon on his mandate to review government
position. qu. 1470. (r) 1537
Legislative solution. request for pariculars. qu. 1489
Legislative solution to dispute. government position. qu. 1587-88
Meeting of Prime Minister wîth Matthews Group. requestftor
details. qu. 1519
Persona] knowledge of Leader of Government on policy proposai.
qu. 1490-91
Possible govemment inquiry. st. 880
Possible revision of report of Robert Nixon. governiment position.
qu. 1502
Public inquiry. governiment position. qu. 1530
Redevelopment of Teiiiiinals I anid 2, îequcst foi iniformîation,
qu. 1471, (r) 1537-38
Retusal of ministeî to appear before Senate committee.
gýovernment position. qu. 1519
Request for appearance of mînister before Senate committee.
1521
Request for copies of aIl material or information on which
Mr. Nixon based his report. qu. 1492
Request for copy of stamped receipt notation on Mr. Nixon's
report. qu. 1502
Request for Judicial inquiry. government position. qu. 1489-90
Requcst for public inquiry. govcrnmenf position. qu. 901-02
Requcst for- tabling of lawycr's tîme dockets rclating to mecting
w ith Matthews Gi ou1p. 15102
qu.
Tra:nspîort Canaîda study. requesi for- pai ticîlai s. qu. 1491-92,
(t> 538
Vcrhal staicnicnis of' Mirnisîci of Transpoti. i ccucst for %\i ttcn
coifinion.qut. 1470) 7 I1.fir 1534-35

INDEX
Transport-Cont'd

Pearson International Airport
Cancellation of lease agreement. qu, 1040-41, (r) 1169
Cancellation of leases preventing redevelopment of Terminals I
and 2, government position. qu, 1490. (r) 1535
Comments of minister on delay in renovations on Terminals I and
2. government position, qu. 1585-86
Delay in redevelopment of Terminals 1 and 2, qu, 1301-02,
(r) 1361-62
Government position, qu, 1451-52, (r) 1536-37
Implications of alleged involvement of Prime Minister,
qu. 1057-58, (r) 1136
Request for answer, 1111
Importance of passage of Bill C-22 on development, knowledge
of Robert Nixon, government position, qu, 145 I
Importance of passage of Bill C-22 to development, statement by
Leader of the Government, st. 1295
Influence of government actions on attracting future business,
qu, 1451, (r) 1536
Motion to strike Special Committee to inquire into privatization
contracts, 1282, 1350-53, 1563-69, 1575-80, adopted,
as amended, 1590-92
Request for government response. qu, 1529-30
Nominees to Canadian Transport Authority, government position,
qu, 912-13, (r) 1011-12
See appendix, p. 1023
Possible negotiation of lease, government position. qu. 985-86,
(r) 1012
Remaining impediments to redevelopment, qu, I132
Request for answers, qu. 1531
Request for particulars on revenue from subleases, qu. 1490
Transfer of administration to local airport authority, nature of
legal impediment, qu, 1550-01
Pearson International Airport redevelopment, alleged involvement of
Prime Minister, 1450-51
Request for further answer. 1165-66
Pensions of Route Canada employees. delay in resolution of dispute,
status of negotiations
Government position, qu, 1727-28
Government response, qu, 2090-91
Port of Saint John, importance of rail infrastructure, st, 870
Privatization of Canadian National, reopening of negotiations with
Canadian Pacific. government position. qu, 1255.
(r) 1344
Proposed sale of Halifax shipyards, government position, qu, 114,
(r) 221
Proposed study of Atlantic Canada freight rates. government
position, qu, 553-54, (r) 834
Public statements by Minister of Transport regarding motives of
certain senators, qu, 1285-86
Position of Leader of the Govemment, qu. 1298-99, (r) 1361-62
Question of privilege, 1492
Radio Canada International, invitation to Minister of Foreign Affairs
and International Trade to respond to Senate committee
report. qu, 1227
Railways work stoppage
Longer term arrangements for dispute settlements, government
position, qu, 1374
Status of negotiations at Canadian Pacific Rail and VIA Rail.
qu, 1359-60
Relationship of Canadian Airport Authority to development of
Pearson International Airport, qu. 913
Reliability of Labrador helicopters on search and rescue missions,
government position, qu, 604, (r) 836
Removal of emergency response capability from smaller airports
Difference in standards of safety, government position.
qu. 1531-32
Government position. qu, 1520. (r) 1685
Repairs to Ports of Halifax and Saint John. government position. 97
Replacement of search and rescue helicopter ai Yarmouth.
Nova Scotia. st. 2008

Transport-Cont'd

Search and rescue helicopter replacement program
Purchase of units without tender, government position, qu. 2400,
(r) 2558
Status of EH-101 contract
Government position, qu, 2320. (r) 2609
Nature of milestone payments, qu. 2349. (r) 2609
Suitability and safety of replacement units, government position.
qu. 2401, (r) 2558
Search and rescue, replacement of Sea King and Labrador helicopter
fleets
Effect of replacements on viability of Canadian Forces Base
Shearwater, performance standards for replacements.
qu, 1340, (r) 2071
Status of EH-101 contract, government position, qu, 2118
Search and rescue, replacement of Sea King helicopter fleet, st. 449
Documents tabled. qu, 603-04
Government position, qu, 422, (r) 556, 453-54, (r) 585-86, 604,
(r) 836
Request for answer. qu, 882
Strengthening highway standards for truck safety, government
position, qu. 1520-21, (r) 1745
Timing of vote on motion to strike Special Committee. request for
response, qu, 1530-31
Trans-Canada Highway
Federal-provincial agreements currently in force, request for
particulars, qu, 1680, (r) 1990
Proposed toll booths in Nova Scotia, government position,
qu. 1839, (r) 1993
Underutilized infrastructure ai Canadian ports. need for proposed
new berthage and cargo sheds in Minister's riding,
qu, 1472, (r) 1554
Transport, Ad Hoc Parliamentary Committee on Lightstations,
consultations in British Columbia, inquiry, 1039,
1153-56
Cost of keeping lighthouse family. 1156
Speakers: Senators
Carney, Pat. 1153-55. 1156
Forrestall, J. Michael, 1155-56
Robertson, Brenda M., 1156
Transport and communications
Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission,
proposed orders on directions on direct-to-home
satellite distribution and on pay-per-view television
programming, deposited with Clerk of the Senate, 1546
Directions to Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications
Commission on direct-to-home satellite distribution,
comments of Minister of Canadian Heritage,
government position, qu, 1692
Marine safety, Ad Hoc Parliamentary Committee on Lightstations,
st, 929, 932

Transport and Communications, Standing Senate Committee
Authority to continue special study on report of National
Transportation Act Review Commission. 211, 234, 872.
887
Authority to engage services. 250, 274
Authority to extend date for final report, 1689, adopted, 1710
Authority to meet during sittings of the Senate. 527. 570, 1204.
1702, 2230. 2437. 2462
Authority to permit electronic coverage of meeting, adopted, 1057.
1204
Authority to study telecommunications. 1488. 1515-17. adopted.
1525-26
Cultural sovereignty. 1517
Industry convergence. 1515
Information highway. 1515

TIransport and Communications-Coi'd
Canada's international competitive position in telecommunicat ions.
tr to authorize committee to extend date tor final report
on special study. 2110, adopted, 2 129
Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission,
proposed orders on directives on Direct-to-Home
Satellite Distribution Undertakings. authority for
electronic coverage of committee proceedings. 1615.
adopted. 1647-48
Marine safety
Authority to examine role of lightstations. 211, 232-34, 246
Mandate, 233
Staffing. 233
Speakers: Senators
Carney. Pat. 232. 233, 234
Frith. Royce. 233, 234
Gigantes. Philippe Deane, 234, 246
Molgeat. Gildas L., 233
Study on mandate and staffing of'l ghtstations. question for
chairman. 954-55
Membership
Sec Journals of the Senate
Radio Canada International. authority to study implications of
reduction in funding. 78. 198-200
Cuts to language services. 198. 199
Satellite technology. 199
Shortwave service. 199
Reports
lst. expenses incurred during 3rd Session. 34th Parliament. tabled.
91
Sce Journals of the Senate
2nd. Competition in Transportation. Policy and Leg-islation in
Review. 583. adopted. 607
Sec Journals of the Senate
3rd. Radio Canada International. 583, adopted. 607
Sec Journals of the Senate
4th. Marine safcty. 583-84. adopted. 607
Sec Journals of the Senate
Sth. Radio Canada International. study of mandate and tunding.
686, adopted. 779-82
Funding cutbacks. 780
History. 780
International broadcasting. 781
Mandate. 780
Purposes, 780
6th. Marine safety. study on mandate and staffing of lightstations,
tabled. 951
7th. Marine Transportation Security bill C-38 without amdt. 984
81h. Buffalo and Fort Erie Public Bridge Company amendmnent
bill C-8 1. without amdt. 1774
9th. Budget. examînation on Canada's international competîtive
position in telecommunications. 1837, adopted. 2()
Sec Journals of the Senate
lOth. Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications
Commission. proposed orders on directions on
direct-to-home
satellite
distribution
and
on
pay-per-view television programmîng. 1837. adopted.
2001-02
I1th. CN Commercialîzation bill C-89 without arndt. 1922
Telecommunîcations. authority to permit electronîc coverage of
proceedîng-s. adopted. 1740

Transport Canada, details of budgetary savings under 1995 budget
plan. tablcd. 1601

Transport, Nem Brunswick rail service, inqujiiy 933. 961-62
Cuis to VI1A Rail. 961
I av iner Iromn Saint John to Moncton. 962
DI)îscou nt on adult ies. 961

Transport, New Brunswick rail service-Cooi 'd
Speaker: SenatorDeWare. Mabel M.. 933. 961-62
Treasury Board, possible amrendments to Members of' Parliament
Retîrîng Allowances Act. government position. qu. 1041
Tributes
Adams. Hon. Willie. on l8th anniversary of' appointment to the
Senate. 1522
Barnhart. Esq.. Gordon. on appointment as bonorary officer of
Senate. 178-81
Beaulieu. Hon. Mario. on occasion of resig-nation. 740-42
Bélisle. Esq.. Paul C., on appoîntment as Clerk of Senate. 178-81
Carter. the late Hon. Chesley William, 77, 91
Chaput-Rolland. Hon. Solange. on retirement from Senate. 412-20
David. Hon. Paul. tributes on retireînent from the Senate. 1158-62
Desmaraîs. the late Hon. Jean Noël. 2060-63
Everett. Hon. Douglas D., on resîgnation from Senate. 19
Fournier, the late Hon. Edgar. 447-48. 449
Frith. Hon. Royce. on resignation from Senate and appointment as
High Commissioner for Canada to the United Kinedom.
839-42. 844
Hall. the late Hon. Mr. Justice Emmctt M.. 2263
Jalbert. the late René, 2553-54
Lang. Hon. Daniel A.. on retîrement trom Senate. 613-17
Leblanc. the late Hon. Fernand E.. 2553
Macquamre. Hon. Health. on retirement trom Senate. 718-26
Marshall, Hon. Jack
On papal citation of special recognition. 845
On retîrement from Senate. 977-82
Muir. Hon. Robert. on retirement from Senate. 889-96
Neiman. Hon. Joan. on retirement front Senate. 2038-44
Pepin. P.C.. the late Hon. Jean-Luc. 2064-65
Rabin. the late Yitzhak. former Prime Minister of lsrael. 2194-99
Ritchie. the late Charles Stewart Almon. 1725. 1738-39
Rowe. the late Hon. Frederick George. 683-85
Spicer. Esq.. Erik J.. on retîrement as Parliamentary Librarian and
designation as Parliamentary Librarian Fineritus.
276-79
Sylvain. Hon. John. on resignation from Senate. 2551-52
Walker PC.. the late Hon. David James. 2063-64
Trudeau and Our Times
Misleading information in Globe and Mail book review. st. 1157
Trudeau, Right Honourable Pierre Elliott
Congratulations on the occasion of his 75th bîrthday st. 871
Tenth anniversary of resignation. st. 784
Turcotte, His Eminence Jean-Claude, tributes on nomination as
cardinal. st, 9 10
Tweed and District Historical Society, st. 2499
Twinn, Hon. Walter P.
Aborîginal peoples. native self-government. inquiry, 689
Yukon Fîrst Nations Self-government bill C-34. 761
Unemployment Insur-ance amendment (jury service) bill C-216. I i.
1236: 2r. 1257. 1293. ref to com. 1293: rep wîthout amidt.
1338: 3r. 1362: r.a.. chap. 7. 1995. 1446
Jur~yduty. 1257
Speakers: Senators
Beirntson. Erie Arthur, 1293
Biydcn. John G.. 1257
Unernplovnment Insurance. changes to legislation respecting
sisc.s.1248

osrý

INDEX
United Nations
Fiftieth anniversary of founding. st, 1920-22. 1956-57T 2147-48
Human rights in China. defeat of resolution. request for copy of text,
qu, 2211l

International Day for the Elimination of Racial Discrimination.
st,.235. 1338
International Day of the Faniily. st. 448-49
International Human Rights Day. st. 2434-35
Nuclear non-proliferation treaty. vote on reaffirmation. governmrent
position. qu. 1599. (r) 1636-37
Peacekeeping in Bosnia, participation in rapid reaction force.
government position. qu. 1802
Permanent Secretariat on Biological Diversity to be located in
Montreal. st. 2361-62
Possible changes to application of veto. government policy.
qu. 1802. (r) 2049
Resolution to hait nuclear testing
Government objection to wording in text, request for particulars.
qu. 2234
Request for copy of offending text. qu. 2209
Withdrawal of co-sponsorship. government position. qu. 2208-09
Universal Dec laration of Human Rights. st. 2435-36
United Nations, Fourth World Conference on Women, Beijing,
China, inquiry. 2110, 2236-39, 2386-89
Canadian delegation. 2238. 2239
Child marriage. 2237
Children's rights. 2238
Chinese women. 2387
Education programs. 2237
Female genital mutilation. 2237
Girl child, 2237. 2238
Inheritance. 2237
Micro-banks, 2388
Micro-credit programs. 2388
Parental responsibilities. 2237
"Parliamentary observers". 2238
Rape in armed conflict. 2388
Refugees based on gender-related persecution, 2388
Sustainable economic development. 2388
Vatican delegation. role of. 2239
Violence against women. 2388
Speakers: Senators
Cohen. Erminie J., 2386-89
Kinsella, Noël A.. 2238
MacEachen. Allan J., 2239
Pearson. Landon. 2236-38, 2239
United Nations, International Conference on Population and
Deveîopment, inquiry. 933, 1105-07. 1125-27, 1150-52
Abortion. 1126. 1152
Beijing Women's Conference. 1150
Canadian Safe Motherhood Project. 1125
"DALY Index". 1152
Desertification. 1106
Equity of sexes. 1106
Family. 1106
Family planing. 1126
Female circumcision. 1106. 1125
Fertility awareness. 1151
Fertility regulation. 1126
Freedomi of religion. 1125
Over-urbanization. 1106
Programme of' Action. 1105. 1106. 1125. 1126
"Vaccine agai nst pregnanc-. 1152
Speaker: SenatorHaidasz. Stanley. 933. 1105-07. 1150-52

Unveiling of Canadian War Memorial at Green Park, London,
England, guest list, tabled. 1070
Use of government aircraft, tabled. 2177
Valour and the Horror, amount and tcrms of boans to producers.
tabled. 1206
Veterans affairs
Aboriginal veterans. request for action on report of Standing Senate
Committee, government position. qu. 1728
Benny Farm housing project. approval of CMHC proposai.
st. 181-82
Breakdown of pensionable disahilities. tabled. 852
Canada's role in World War IL, st. 481-82,.509
Canadian veterans of Korean War. m to examine inconsistencies in
recognition of service. 18R4
Canadian Vietnam Veterans' Memorial. 300
Motion to provide site for memorial. 176. 428-31. 505-06, m in
amdt. 506-07. 517-2 1, neg on div. 52 1, m adopted on
div. 523
National Capital Commission mandate, 506. 518, 519
Peacekeeping. 505, 518
Peace Parks, 506. 519
Point of order. 431-33. 436-37
United States Embassy in Ottawa, 506. 519
Vietnam War, Canada's role. 505, 518
Presentation of petitions, 250. 267. 282. 302. 354. 501. 880
Dental care for veterans. tabled. 3 10
Dieppe Raid, m to honour veterans by creating commemorative
decoration. 302; m in amdt. 376-77; mi in amdt adopted
and motion, as amended. adopted, 377
Disability pension applications to Canadian Pension Commission,
tabled, 852
Entitlement under War Veterans Allowance. tabled. 852
Establishment of Memorial Gardens in Caen. France, st, 213
Fiftieth anniversary of D-Day, st, 626
Fiftieth anniversary of World War Il battles. st, 40-41
Financial support to veterans associations. tabled. 852
Jewish war veterans of Calgary, unveiling of commemorative
plaque. 300
Merchant Navy Veteran and Civilian War-related Benefits Act.
effcct on parallel legislation, st. 248
Particulars of Canadian Forces personnel deployed in South East
Asia. tabled. 852
Particulars of staffing. tabled, 852
Proposed site of Canadian Vietnam Veterans' Memorial. st. 213
Recipients of disability pensions. tabled. 852
Recominendations to Task Force on Program Review. tabled. 765
Responsibility for administering the Pension Act. tabled. 852
Role of commanders and politicians, st, 509
Shaughnessy Hospital, British Columbia, tabled, 310
Stalag Luft 111. fiftieth anniversary of "The Great Escape".
st, 279-80
Status of Canada training regulations, tabled. 852
Veterans Independence Program, qualification of veterans. qu. 222
Veterans' pensions and entitlements. tabled, 672
War medals and awards, tabled, 3 10
Veterans Affairs Canada
Breakdown of deployment of staff. tabled. 239
Vacancies in Corner Brook District Office. tabled. 203
Veterans affairs, Canadian Vietnam Veterans' Memorial, inquiry.
109-10. 173-75. 193-95
International peace parks. 194
U.S. vetcrans' benefits to Canadian veterans. 194

Veterans atTairs, Canadian Vietnam Veterans' Memorial
Speakers: Senators
Berntson. Eric Arthur. 195
Gig-antes. Philippe Deane. 175. 193-94. 195
Marshall. Jack. 109, 173-75. 194. 195
Perrault. Raymond J., 194
Phillips, Orville H.. 175

Coi'd

Veterans afTairs, riftieth anniversary of D-Day, inquiry. 354. 407-09.
507-08
Abbaye D'Ardennes. 508
Battle of Normnandy Foundation. 508
Caen Memorial. 508
Canada Remembers Prograrn. 407. 507
Speakers: Senators
Marshall. Jack. 407-09
Molgat. Gildas L., 507-08
Theriault. L. Norbert, 409
Veterans affairs, Royal Canadjan Legion, inquiry. 856. 877-79, 1050
Head-dress policy. 878-79
Speaker: Senator
Macdonald. John M.. 856. 877-79
Veterans afTairs, status of merchant navy veterans. inqulry. 320,
withdrawn. 682
Speaker: SenatorMarshall. Jack, 682
Veterans Appeal Board, Order in Counicil appointment. government
position. qu. 554
Veterans Independence Program
Eligibility of veterans residing abroad. tabled. 1206
Qualification of veterans. tabled, 202
Veterans Land Administration, status of activities under Veterans
Land Act, tabled. 852
Veterans Review and Appeal Board bill C-67. I r. 1649; 2r, 1663-69:
ref t0 com. 1669: rep without amdt. 1798: 3r. 1856-59:
r.a.. chap. 18, 1995. 1919
Appeal process, 1664
Bureau of Pensions Advocates. 1665
Disability pension. 1663. 1664, 1857
Human cost of bill. 1665
Merging Canadian Pension Commission and Veterans Appeal Board.
1665
Minister's power. 1665. 1667
Pension advocate. 1667. 1668, 1859
Processing lime. 1857. 1858
Veterans residing in England. 1669
Veterans Review and Appeal Board. 1664
Speakers: Senators
Cools. Anne C.. 1663-65
Gigantes. Philippe Deane. 1669
MacDonald. Finlay. 1665-66
Phillips. Orville H.. 1666-68
Theriault. L. Norbert. 1668-69
Victory ini Europe
Fiftieth anniversary celebration ceremonies
Alleged remarks of Prime Nlinister. st. 1614
Piýesence of Prime Minister. st. 16301
Fifîieth annixci sarv celebration cereinonies in Nethcî Iandý.
aitendance hy vetei:îns. st. 1887-88
FifIlici h anni~e uscornncmoi ati ne the cessatiîon of' hosti litiecs
s!. 1581
HomiaLe îo i esisiance mnos
emenîs. si. 1614

Vietnam Veterans' National Memorial, Canadian
See Veterans affairs
Violence against women, st. 1335-36. 2264
Violence in society, inquiry. 1356. 1466-68. 1495-98
Child abuse. 1467, 1495-97
Crime. 1467
Delinquency. 1468
Mothers. role of, 1495-97
Speaker: Senator
Cools. Anne C.. 1356, 1466-68. 1495-97. 1498
Visit of United States President to Ottawa, st, 1248
Visitors
Ai-ab Canadian Women's Association of Canada. 2371
Arafat, Dr. Fathi. Chairmnan of Palestine Red Cross. 932
Afican National Congress of South Africa. members of the. 178
Australian House of Assembly delegation. 1500
Barootes. Hon. Efstathios. 91, 434
Canadian and Manitoba Beet Growers Association, 1348
Council for Yukon Indians delegation. 1096
Czech Republie. delegation of citizens. 992
Dacquay, Louise M.. Speaker of Législative Assemibly of Manitoba.
2346
de Guzman. Col. Antonio. Sergeant-at-Arms. Philippines Senate.
1659
Eloyan. Mrs. Noushing. Montreal city councillor. 917
Friuli Golden Age Croup. 627
4-H citizenship seminar. 1515
Gonzalez, Mr. Roberto Robaina. Minister of Foreign Aff airs.
Republie of Cuba. 1354
Hungary, delegation of parliamentarians. 949
Husseini. His Excellency Faisal AbJel Qader AI. Head of Orient
House and Head of the Steering Committee of' the
Palestine Delegation to the Middle East Peace
Neg-otiations. 2096
Kakfwi. Hon. Stephen. NWT Minister of Justice. 1800
Maganga. Senator. First Secretary ot the Senate of Congo, 2038
Matheson. John and Edith, 1204
McElman. Hon. Charles, 320. 2417
Negrin, His Excellency Bienvenîdo Garcia. Ambassador of Republic
of'Cuba to Canada, 1354
Neiman. Hon. Joan. former senator. 2211
Nikîtov. Mr. Vladimir, Chief of Staff of Federation Council. Féderal
Assembly of the Russian Federation. 1222
Paquet. René. Chairman of Quebec 2002. 1612
Patterson. Dennis. member of NWT Legislative Assemnblv. 1800
Phillips. Hon. Doua.. Minister of Justice. Yukon Territory. 1663
Poitras. the Hon. Jean-Marie. 434
Pullen. Mr. Banry. Parliamrent of Victoria. Australia. 800
Remnant. Mr. Binks. Clerk of the Legislative Assembly of
Manitoba, 2346
Romania. parliamentary delegation. 2361
Russia. officiaIs of Federation Council in State Duma. 2417
Sant. Dr. Alfred. Leader of Opposition in Parliament of Malta. 1618
Skolc. His Excellency Jozef. President of the National Assembly cf
the Republic of Slovenia. 2108
Slovenia. His Excellency the Ambassador to Canada. 2108
Speaker Roett of Barbados. 982
Stanley, George and Ruth. 1204
Sziengue. Mr.. Executive Secretary of the Speaker. Senate of Con.
2038
Votes
Banking. Trade and Commerce Cornrnittec report
26th. Excise Tax. Income Tax arniendinent bill C-103. on rn io
adopt rep. neL on div. 2497-98
Conistitutional Amiendînents bill C- 1101.
Special Senate Commiiittee
repori. neg on di\. 2633-34
ElCctorl BouIndail iesýRZeadjuistiineni Suspension. 1994 hilIl C- IX
3
r. on di\. 500)

INDEX
Votes
Io
Electoral Boundaries Readjustment. 1995 bill C-69, on mn adjourn
debate. 1914; on m instructing com to table final report.
on div. 2290-91
Legal and Constitutional Affairs Committee
Electoral Boundaries Readjustment. 1995 bill C-69, on
m instructing com to table final rep no later than
December 13. 199-5, on div. 2483-84
Pearson International Airport Agreements bill C-22, on
m instructing com to table final rep no later than
December 13, 1995. on div, 2484-85
Reports
2nd. Electoral Boundaries Readjustmnent Suspension. 1994
bill C- 18, m in amndt. on div. 499, adoption of rep.
on div, 499-500
8th. Pearson International Airport Agreements bill C-22,
adoption of rep, on div. 816
in
l4th. Electoral Boundaries Readjustment. 1995 bill C-69. mn
amdt. on div, 2030-31 - m in amdt. on div. 20-35-36
l6th. Firearms bill C-68, with 14 amndts. m in amndt. on div.
2343-44; adoption of report, on div. 2344; 3r, on div.
2345

Walker, Mr. David, Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister of
Finance
Borrowing Authority. 1994-95 bill C-14. considered in Commidttee
of the Whole. 293-94. 295. 296-97
Excise Tax amendment bill C-32, considered in Committee of the
Whole. 749-50. 751

West Coast Ports Operations, 1994 bill C-10. Ir. 64; 2r. 64-67; ref to
Committee of the Whole. 67: considered in Committee
of the Whole. Hon. Eymard G. Corbin in the Chair,
Hon. Lloyd Axworthy. Mr. Michael McDermott and
Mr. Robert Cooke taking part in the debate. 67-75;
rep without amdt. 75; 3r. 75; r.a.. chap. 1. 1994. 76
Arbitration. 65
Collective bargaining. 65, 66. 67
Costs of dispute. 65
Final offer selection. 65. 67
Layoffs. 65
Penalties for non-compliance. 65
Price of wheat. 66
Wages. 65
Speakers: Senators
Bosa, Peter, 73
Carney. Pat. 69
Corbin. Eymard G.. 75
Fairbairn. Joyce, 64-66. 67. 68
Forrestail. J. Michael. 73
Gustafson, Leonard J., 66. 72
Jessiman, Duncan J., 70-71
Kinsella, Noël A.. 71. 72
Lawson, Edward M.. 66-67. 70
Lynch-Staunton. John. 69. 73. 74
Moîgat. Gildas L., 70, 75
Oison. H.A., 72
and witnesses in Comittee of the Whole
Axworthy. Hon. Lloyd, Minister of Human Resources
Development and Minister of Western Diversification.
67. 68-70. 71, 72. 73. 74
Cooke. Robert. 67
McDermnott, Michael. 67

Walker, P.C., the late Hon. David James, tributes. 2063-65

Wars and rememnbrances, fiftieth anniversary of the victory in Europe.
st, 1582-83

Watt, Hon. Charie
Canadian National Exhibition. Lliqqusivut. Inuit Spirit of the Arctic
Pavilion, st. 1773
Fireanns bill C-68, 1820-23. 1909- 10
Aboriginal and treaty rights. 1820. 1821
Aboriginal hunters, 1821
Aboriginal languages speakers. 1822
Long firearms, 1821
Outfitting and tourism. 1822
Self-government. 1821
Suicide. 1910
Legal and Constitutional Affairs Committee report
16th, Firearms bill C-68, with 14 amdts. 2336-37
Aboriginal peoples, 2336, 2337
National unity
Indian affairs. document on post-referendum policy purportedly
prepared by officiaI. government position, qu. 2382
Presence of aboriginal peoples at Quebec Round. government
position, qu, 2382. 2383
Yukon First Nations Self-government bill C-34, 757-58, 788
Financial transfer agreement, 758
Transfer of administration of programs, 759

Weber-Malakhov arctic expedition, trihutes. st, 2009. 2013

Wenman, the late Robert Lloyd, tributes. 1795-96

West Coast Ports Operations, 1995 bill C-74. Ir. 1315; 2r. 1316-24;.
ref to Committee of the Whole. 1324; considered in
Committee of the Whole. Hon. P. Derek Lewis in the
Chair. Hon. Lucienne Robillard. Mr. Pierre HameIl and
Mr. James Lahey taking part in the debate. 1324-33-. rep
without amdt, 1333-, 3r. 1333; r.a., chap. 2, 1995. 1334
Collective bargaining. 1316. 1317, 1318, 1322
Conciliation officer. 1317
Fine, 1321, 1322
Foremen. 1320.,1321
Grain. 1317
Industrial inquiry commission. 1318
International Longshoremen's and Warehousemen's Union. 1316
Mediator-arbitrator, 1318
Retiring allowances, 1317
"Side documents", 1317
Trade. 1318. 1319
Waterfront Foremen's Employers' Association, 1316
Speakers: Senators
Andreychuk. A. Raynell, 1328-29
Beaudoin, Gérald-A.. 1332
Berntson, Eric Arthur, 1318-19
Bryden, John G., 1322-23
Fairbairn.Joyce, 1316-18. 1324, 1333
Forrestaîl. J. Michael, 1321-22. 1329-30
Gauthier. Jean-Robert. 1329
Lynch-Staunton. John, 1316. 1325-26. 1327. 1330. 1331. 1332,
1333
Murray. Lowell. 1331
Oison. H.A.. 1319. 1320-21. 1327-28
Prud'homme. Marcel, 1323-24, 1333
Rivest. Jean-Claude. 1327
and witness in Conmittee of the Whole
Robillard. Hon. Lucienne. Minister of Labour. 1325. 1326.
1327. 1328. 1329. I330. 1331. 1332. 1333

Western Economic Diversification Canada, report of Auditor General.
mandate of agency. government policy. qu. 2268-69
Western grain transportation, Crow Rate, direct payment t0 farmers.
government position. qu. 935. (r) 1188
Winnipeg, congratulations on efforts to retain Jets Hockey Team.
st. 1649
See oI,ço City of Winnipeg
Winnipeg,

Manitoba, outstanding- cornmunity
performing arts. st, 2608

support for the

Winter Olympics 2002, candidacy of Quebec City, st, 1612-14,
qu. 1762-63
Women and Iiteracy, st. 2108-09
World AIDS Day, eftect on pandemic on youth, st. 2397-98

World Trade Organization Agreement Implementation-Cour ci
World Ti ade Org-anization. I1059
Speakers: Senators
Andreychuk. A. Raynell. 1172
Austin. Jack, 1058-63. 1074-75, 1170. 1175
Bolduc, Roch, 1170-71
Fairbairn. Joyce. 1074
Grafstein. Jerahmiel S.. 1171-72
Gustaison. Leonard J. 1074
Lynch-Staunton. John. 1070-71. 1073
Mac Eachen. Allan J.. 1173-74
Murray, Lowell. 1063, 1073
OIson. H.A.. 1072-73. 1074
St. Germain. Genry. 1073-74
Spivak. Mira, 1071-72
World War II
European theatre of operations. list of prisoners of war returned or
repatriated to Canada. tabled. 1229
See aiuo Second World War

World Teachers' Day, st, 2097-98
World Trade Organization Agreement Implementation bill C-57.
Ir. 1038: 2r. 1058-63. 1070-75. re to corn, 1075:
rep without amdt but wrth observations and
recommendations.
1163-64:
3r. 1164.
1170-74:
r.a.. chap. 47, 1994. 1177
Agriculture. 1059. 1072, 1073, 1074
Agricultural tariffs. 1060
Anti-dumping. 1060)
Asia-Pacific Economnic Cooperation (APEC). 1062. 1063
Asia-Pacific trade. 1062
Chemicals. 1061
Communications and electronie equipmnent industries. 1061
Countervailing., 1061
Cultural industries. 1063
Dairy industry. 1072
Eggs. 1072
European Union and Japanese implementation buis, 1061
Financial and telecommunications services. 1061
Free trade, 1061, 1074
GATT. 1058. 1059. 1060. 1062
Global tariffs. 1058. 1060
Govemmnent procuremnent. 1061
Import quotas. 1059
Intellectual property. 1059. 1060, 1061
International environmental standards. 1063
International grain market, 1073
International rule making. 1059
International trade relations. 1059
Manitoba Sugar Co., 1072
Multilateralisrn. 1061
NAFTýA. 1062
Phannaceuticals. 1061
Ratification and implementation. 106 1
Skim milk powder. 1073
Subsidies. 1059. 1061. 1171
Sug-ar industry. 1071. 1072
Tariff cuis. Il171
Trade disputes. 1060)
Trade in services. 1060
Trade policy issues. 1061
Trade policy review rnechanisin (TPRM>. 1059
Trade reniedy rules. 1060)
Urugýuay Round. 1058. 1059. 1061, 10)62. 1171
U.S . tariff'schedule, 1071. 1072

Young Men's Christian Association,
anniversary. st. 598-99

one hundred and fiftieth

Young OtTenders, Criminal Code amendment bill C-37. I r. 1281:
2r, 1289-91. 1344-47; ref to corn, 1348; rep without amidt
but with one observations. 1798-800:. 3r. 1859-7<):
r.a.. chap. 19. 1995. 1919
Aboriginal youth. 1346
Accountability. 1862
Adult court. 1290. 1345. 1864
Age of reason. 1344. 1345
Child poverty. 1345
Community-based sentences. 1290)
Communîty policing. 18869
Custodial sentences. 1346
Custody. 1868
Disclosure of infbrmatiuii. 1345. 1347
Ethnic gang-s. 1346
"Facts, about crime. 1862-63
lmprisonment. 1290
Information. shared and private. 1291, 1347
Jasmin report. 1860. 1862. 1863. 1864
Maximum penalties. 1290
Murder. 1346
Non-custodial sentences. 1345
Older and younger young offenders. 129<)
Open or secure custody. 1290
Operation Springaboard. 1866. 1868
Parole. 1290
Prevention of'criminal behavîour. 1860
Primary prevention. 1860
Protection of public, 1289. 1290
Protection of young people's ng.hts. 1289
Rehabilitation. 1290. 1344. 1345. 1346, 1859
Retention of records. 1291
Secondary prevention. 1860), 1861
Tertiary prevention. 1860. 1861
Vîctiîn impact statements. 1290-91
Violent and nonviolent crime. 1290. 1345
Violent crime. 1866. 1867
Youth courts. 1345
Youth crime crisis. 1347. 1862
Youtb gangs. 1867
Yoth justice svsten. role. 1863
Youtb uneînploynment. I1345

INDEX
Young Offenders, Criniinal Code amendment bill C-37-Coi'd
Speakers: Senators
Andreychuk. A. Raynell. 1344-47, 1861-66
Di Nino, Consiglio. 1866-70
Grafstein. Jerahmiel S.. 1869
Pearson, Landon. 1859-61I
Stanbury. Richard J.. 1289-91. 1859

Youth
Employment and training, student summer employment program.
qu. 355, (r) 504-05
Employment programs. government position. qu, 504. (r) 765
Funding of training initiatives, govemnment position. qu. 356
Katimavik. reestablishment of program, qu. 357-58

Youth, education and employment. st, 1711 -12

Yukon First Nations Land Claims Agreement bill C-33. Jr, 75 1
2r, 751-56; ref to com, 757; rep without amdt, 784;
3r, 784-87;. r.a., chap. 34, 1994, 837
B.C. Treaty Commission. 756
Champagne and Aishihîk First Nations. 754
Employment. 751
Fish and wildlife harvesting rights, 751, 754
Fishing hranch ecological reserve. 754
Gwitch'in Comprehensive Land Cîaim Agreement, 756
Heritage protection, 754
Hunting and fishing rights, 754
Indian Act. amendments. 756
Land and financial compensation. 751
McArthur Wildlife Sanctuary. 754
Nacho Nyak Dun First Nation. 754
Native Agenda. 756
Nisutlin River Delta National Wildlife Area. 755
Old Crow Plats Special Management Area, 754
Outfitting concession. 754. 755
Right to buy interest. 751
Royal Commission on Aboriginal Peoples. 756
Saskatchewan Indian Nations, 756
Teslin Tlingit Council Agreement. 755
Vuntut Gwitchin First Nation. 753, 754
Vuntut National Park, 754

Yukon First Nations Land Claims Agreement bill
Speakers: Senators
Andreychuk. A. Raynell, 785, 786-87
Cohen. Erminie J.. 756
Di Nino. Consigîlo. 786
Frith. Royce. 756. 784-85. 786
Lucier. Paul. 751-56. 787

Cont 'd

Yukon First Nations Self-government bill C-34. Ir. 757z 2r. 757-61
ref to com. 761; rep without amdt, 788; 3r. 788;
r.a.. chap. 35. 1994. 837
B.C. land settiemnents. 760
B.C. Treaty Commission. 759
Citizenship, 759, 785. 786. 788
Financial transfer agreement. 758
Gwich'in Comprehensive Land Claim Agreement. 759
Indian Act amended. 759
Instrumentality of political power. 760
Kaska Nation. 787
Law-making powers. 759
Native Agenda. 759
Royal Commission on Aboriginal Peoples. 759
Saskatchewan Indian Nations. 759
Subsequent dlaims. 759
Supreme chief, 760
Transfer of administration of programs. 758
Voting rights. 760
Yukon Surface Rights bill. 787
Speakers: Senators
Andreychuk., A. Raynell. 761, 788
Bernitson. Eric Arthur, 758-59
Frith. Royce. 759-60. 788
Marchand. Len. 760-61
Twinn. Walter P. 761
Watt. Charlie. 757-58. 788

Yukon Surface Rights Board bill C-55. Ir. 994; 2n. 1042-44; ref to
com. 1044; rep without amdt but with an observation.
1093; 3r, 1093-96; r.a.. chap. 43. 1994. 1177
Disputes. 1042. 1043. 1095
Kaska nation land dlaim. 1043. 1044
Land access. 1042
Land dlaims. 1095
Self-government. 1095
Surface Rights Board. 1042. 1043
Nomination of members. 1043, 1095
Powers. 1095
Umbrella final agreement, 1042. 1094. 1095
Speakers: Senators
Andreychuk. A. Raynell. 1093-94
Berntson. Arthur Eric. 1043-44
Lucier. Paul. 1042-43. 1093. 1094-96

CL

If>
O

co

Coo

N

o

c

- -C

o
Nu

o
-q

o

Co

Ln

o

E

N,

o

-1

dE

~E E c
0

c

;o

0.

.:o
C

Z
>

f>

o

(-

o>

>

-ti

o e

C)5
cma>
0

m

ar,
c
(o
a

-

oÉ
o6

Co

-

&

C

-

O>0
8

.E

-

.E

.E

o

o

a>

oM

-

E

o

so

o

o

oo

Co

~

.o>
-t

-

e

a

c E
CD
a
<

CD

a>

a>

ao_

o
ö-

F

c< a
Ca>

cm
2
soSc

m

0
c

Co

C>

-

c< 0È

ci

o>

Me

o

c

CD

aa
a

:

E
oe

0

Mo
-a

d

o
i

0

0EdE

o

me
a)

o

CD

Cf>

c

o

e

Co
E

o

eE

O
o

.

E

o

E

<

a>tu

ggO
o

o .o

a

<

C
0E

03

c

o
co
f
..

0

OO

Co

CD

m
e

z

_

O

e

t

(O

0_

0E

5

a

a

a

-

U)

5-Z
Z

i

O
CD-

O

O
r-

.

3

0

r-

-

5

E

o

w

_

o

ww

L=

o

r-

c

CiN)-N

f

Ln

g

z

c

0

e

C

O O
CN

>n

6t E

o

Mo

s

rEoz

:2 E

ýrw

LO

Co

ze~~~(
o1)

N

c-

le

a

c .

O

-

Ci

o

O

o

o>

c

Ln

co

U

>

C
(

O
C

o

N

Ci

N

o
C)

f>
C

o

CI)
r-C

C

>
.

o

Ln

E5

ot

o

(%
G

-

-

N

N»

N

0
E

N

o
-

co

to

N

o

o

-e

C\i

-

If>
N

o

Qj

O

-

-

-

o?

co

QC

o

o>

~/)

*

o

>

>oE
S

u

0

>.E

a>

n
2>a>2

m

(--aa<

0

-

~

<-

M.

g

<cn

<>a

o

-D

a>~~19

- i g

<g

a

LE.v

C
E

<a
0~

0

C a>0

0 <c. <E
Oa<>

<>83E
0

Cc
o

C

00

a>
Co

r aM'

a

Ei
a>
4t

C)

Ci

r-

C) c

P a>a.>E

0

<o r-

C) C) C)

C

0

<>

<C

<e.

E

<C-

<

<

<<<

<o

a>

0

0
o

0

z C)

-

E

<
2

-

c)

co
<
>

-:4 M

"s
-05,C~

C>..

<

OZ

CD

c

-a

>C)

cCD

N

-

<f

c

E

r

cWC2

CD

ZN

a>

o

<
Er

<o

-a>

-

o o C0

C

CDC
<'

œ

<

(

oo

-

aC>C
<.Ca>

:3 e)~ =>
V0
>
() a
0

x
*

i

CD

-u>

oo

0-

G~ao

o>

0

0
0

0~a

"

cc

ma>

a>
Co
-

a>.

~

<

M
$o

o

oE

r-

.

(Da (D -0a

e

E cm-0
o

0

0

0

o

o>
M
a>

o~>c>

eo
.

ta>>

z0
tg<|
c

o

>

-0

CD

r

C)

c

l

(

ri

<

m

-

C)

-.

c

C>o

oej

Co

-O

-O

(0J

C\j

(o

CI)

'

i

(0

CI)

'>
Co

C\i

C)'

-e

(0C
i

(o

(o

C\J

m

-(0(

C:~
c:

c:

E

c'

CC

Co

E

5 E

r-

CD

L

c
D

n

CCc'

\

D

E

Co

:r

C\

Coc
i

(o

-

'-O
c:

CDC

\
D

Q,-

u')

N>O>

~

O

DC

c

c:

r-

-F

0

c

CDDr

cz

mu

0

o

CD

CD

CD

CD

CD

i

i

CI

m

mD

m

pa>

a>

m

a>

-

U-

E
-

-

:-E

O

O

>~ e

0E

ES.a

EE
r-D

D

~

0

o

a>C

Eo

<z-E

a~aO

Zo(
L

r m cor ci5

E>

>C

r-

Za>n Co

M

>

E

MC)~~~~~~~r

~
o> 2

0

L

CD

VE

ci. E0~~

Caa

a>

~
a>C

( 0:

E
U o

a>

0-

Ea

U>

r-

r

co
C\J~~Cd

C

0
Cl

a>
0
E n

E5E

C C)CIDC

EECrV~

0

(o>D'

IDECo
a

~E

Eaa

0a>(

ID-

D

,

CoaV
>
Co

CM>C
a)

m EZ
E

'E

Co

L

m

a *V f

>a

C

cc a>n

a>-

O

CDOCD

mQ)«
r2

a>EE.EEC
c»
E

CD)

X

:_e

E.i

CDCm

Ln

0,

Ca

*cE
a>

EC
a>.-E

m

OOOO

0UC

a>

1

rD

7D Coa> 0aO

~a>C> C
r-V,
a
Cl

(oa>
OLO
M.>

> Ea

CCD
mD

C

-Co
>]

CD

:5
Eto

E

a

(o

CD

CD CD

Uu CM

CYD

w a>
CE

a>

E

mo
ED

u

CD
mC

C)

C Vo

_

C

Co O

C»

0.00

a>

VC

-D

r-

Co

CD

~

CDCD

-

C

o)

a
O

-C

La>
EE >

E<.

E

E

CD
')C. w'

C)

>o cX- c
Wa

C

')

)

C

C

W
W ND
x'

- E

n

a
N

S

C)
0

N

o
D

Co)

o,

o

CI)
o

N

O

C)
CD

LO
o
0

Ec

E

j

Ec)

c

T

a
0,
c

CL
CD

ec

E

CD
c

e

o

o

o

jror

o
CD)

5N!

oE o
0

-5

a-x

OE

jr
O)

o6

ocm

c

z

CD

CD

O)

nc

-)

=
.0

c 0
T0

<a
o0
.0

jr

u-

o

ce

o 0

oo (

a,

a,

-s

-c O.

<

<

a,

a

o

Co C
<

M

O)

o
Oa,

o

o

o
.c .

O)

k5

Co
E
.a
-J

.,

agv

.a,
tu
c

3

r-

-

<O

rtc

-

-

or

a, a,

a,
a,
a
a,
t:

r 'Do
- o
.c 5
0 0- .tro C)

~2

a,

c-3
c>
-

E 2

;-5
E
CL
tu
O)

E

a,
't
0.

a,
a,

c
a,
Eu).,
o-o E<a E
a,
O C)
,~a<
<Oc 2
0

(0

c
at

<ta

CD

o
o

0

oo

) 0

C.,
<t
c
<t

m0

.2 E
0

C

O

&- eng

Oc
.c

--

O
.

=
t0

O

ECo

-c

so
cc

a,
(D

m

,

c
ra

<

-E)

E

~ e.

0

E

D-

E

-

××
c.E - Q)CD C

a

E

Sm.

o-

>

ce

o

o<
-'

<

a, .2

*

a,-

OW>

>
<

a
E

E

a,
'

ujo

<
g

D

c
ro

a lC

>-

or

=5

4):
C

C»D

m

0 c
o

. c->.-

c.,

'> .

o oc

ox

oro.-

<aoe .:20
't> ct
C)

O

a0

tu

-0

ttoCT
a,
CL a,

s

E y
*o
>:e

E
v

, -

oE°

.

CL

CD
E

c

->c

M
c
o-

c-

oI

m. m

O

c

-E 0,
è
a,<

C

*

oEto,
- c
Ec

.E 0

u. .C
0

LL c -

SM
CD
<

av

E2 c
SE
CUË c <

<C)

<

m.

N0®
c:uå

c-E

~ aa
0
E

v v
®
c o

C?

c,oc
o't z _a
o
E

tc

E
o

CL

a
a,
a,

orE

c
12 o

o't

aC o
= - ,a

3E (

c

LE7

c

-,

0 r

CL

2o
.- o

C

a

moc
c.c
t
t-a

a,

c

c

'te

> cc

C-CT

C)2

<t

C?
uT)

CD
CT

<C)

<C

cm

CD

(D

o,
U-

L

t
c

o

as

CD
r

CD

-oc

<

Co
aoo
<

o

CL)

C

t:

L

0 Co c
Co

z

CD

N
CD

CT)

Ca

0

o
ra, .2;-

o

0

o
O)

Co
(D)

o)o

o)

0

<0

0

C\D
N
w

CD

Cfof

--

E 0

o

CD

Co

cE

Lt)

C) C
=

CD

uo E
U

FI-

O

C: U

-

a,

o

CI)

o)

C)

on

t

Ln

L

Ln

!CM

2ý
C\

m L

Cm 10
iCM

LL
m~

!0
Co

C\

*

Cm

C\

1
0

1M

C
Co

Ln

,-C

JLO

CD

o o

<o

CMNL

M

Ci

-

CM

C\l

LO

LO

10

o

CM10

c

-C\l

1

OLN

LO

U')

c

Co

o~

L

L-c\l

<O

C\

c

0

10

c

L

LO

Ln
Co

C

LO

c

CD
LOo
r

cm

e I

10

Cz
a>I

E

C

2

c

10

c

0

r-

Co
10
2

CM

CM

o
0

oe0

C?

LO

LO

LO

LO

10

oE

<

u
e4

-

1

J<

-

U -

eo

D..o
< Z

LL

0

C

1

CMC M
C\

LO

Co

a)

10o

a

(D
o

-a
o

n
ug

O.
t-~

(2

1
1

C)

COW

.,.

0

oS

U<

-

0®

.-

0

o

c

(n 0WCD

CO
e

E2Ë

WWE
o

E

cm L
. c

,-

c

0)
CC

<

<(
r-

c o 0

cn
oW

·

W

0

.

g 3a

W>
LL

<

N

C)C/)1

C\

(D
2

o

C

<

5
Eo.S

r

c

L

Z-E - -0

~

rn

--

o

C

t ±- 0 E

C)CDS

6

to

Co<
o

C
W
M -0r

,...

r-

o
-o

-a

W

cz

CM

rE

o
r -~

(C

a

E)

c

C

E
W
E
i
W

cco

d

p

<>
0<~

.

-

o-

E

o

CE e o
.

r

(z .2 ,O

«I
n r -- ooC ~

6-

0

9

W

< m

i<W
<M <i

£

0 < Cr CE

)

c

(<

2
fiE

E

o a

c
W

C

'a

W

0

<
<

<
rC

oo ~ EC

Co -

~

-

om m _C
< <
<<

30<

iz

Cr

o oo O<c

<<

20

r

r
rE
CU4

Ecc

<-

~

--

(D

n

W

Cmo
o

2W

~
<W
a)~
::
c
W < . O

: <

6

C-o
W

c:

tn

o

10
r

Ö- c

.5 -<: o

-

C
C

C
CD

CM
C

C
10 uo
m
t W0
(D~
< 0C

c
.

0 r £ oo

<

CL

Ea
cEÑ

<- <

M

C

o

<

-

E.

C<
2
U

:3

-O

E

<o )
1
o

o
M

ce

0

E
E

W-m

o

<0

c

c

C

LO

C\|

1o

<

×>

r

0

a)g r<~
r-:t-E

O

(o

Lt

-

C)

CMj

-

C\

L.

o

10

-

o e

C0m/
r N

-

-

C
-

0

<

C)~~~~~~

Wo

LO

c0 m

.-

o

cW( rc
W

<
C2

(0
W

LL

1C

0

nn
W® 0
C)
Wc CW 0

'
cC

E

ao
<
N

MC

-tO

-

c

LO

LO

CM
-

< E

ir

(

Wo0

g~~ý
(

%D

E

-0
0 0

E.

<)

>Co .C

o-

-o -u
C

.

O

- m Li

0 o
C

M

M
C

-

C-

E

c<<

I.

~

o

o2
W

CM

O

1 E
.
1~ a<
c1

<
CD u) --

w>
o

a) Eci>
c W L Z

Cm

N
c
CM

cm.
W

C)1 E
'E

oco

Z::

0

C)

OLn

C

o

o

c-e

S

C\

Ln

1

-

o...
nl

E

c®
E

O

o

CMD

o

E

+-

1
S<

A
.>0

Co

O

LI)

LO

C

W
o

E

WO oWo>
M]-Ô
U

Co

<0

1

0E

c

1

LOCc

LMO

cln

_

LO

C\

CM

L

o0

o
<

-J

CD

-

CM~!ý

-

c C/)-

o

22

L0

,)

<

-o

LD
®-r

coooO~~~~~

0

.

2
†

10c0

-6o

E
E

0

2

O

CI
L

CM

. 0 10

m0

10

Cc C
)C

QI 2
CM

<

10

r_
cm

22

LO

0

O

oo2

o

o

oý
10

l

Co
10
!a.

a>

0

o

o

cc

CD

N

t

o2

0

1

c

o2

oI

£o

C

o

c

10

t

1

rz(
<

o

2

W

<

~

o

c

C

m
(0
Co< 0
cc

~

W
r DW

C

)

C

2

~2

r

-,

______

______

T

t

T

1

1

1

C
o
o

-

o~
Ln

o
C\j

C\1

Co

cci

o>
Ln

Ln

o

o

CD
c
o
c

c:
o
o

c

c

c

c
o
c

C

o

c E

LO

LO

LO

Ln c
C aM

Ln

LO

o

CD

CM
0

cd

M

o-

cd

c

c CL

a,

oC o-

c>>ao

ooe
n 0
o

a

a

o0

Ca

n a>,

<o-

O
Co

CD
cci
CD

o>

C

'0
CD
o -

cm

Co

a,
0

c

.>
<a O>
c.

c -0
c
c

o

c8 c o

<

r- (D

< -r
w

EE

< a
r
<o
<<

«UCo)1

<aOc
t;

E
tE

o

E E

2 c>
<

.0

GoLo

-

Cr

> , -

m,

o

0

a
a,

<

a

<a .c

'

CO 3 N

-

~ca><ý<ý2 OW CD
o0
LD

<

o
a gE

-,

a<a
E

'E
0

E<<o.

c o-V
c> E
c
c

<

-o

E

cn

o

~ ______

a,

--

a

E

0

o>

a>-

o-oa

<o

Erc>

-~

~_o~CDo

mo

eEn>

Co

c

____________________

-c
-o

E

<a

o
CD
c
c>
oa
a,
c>

×c

o

o

>o c a,
ag
e-

OIC

L _________

ae

~a

oc

zCD
.1______________________

cz O0
-

*<
C ---o z
E
-gg c a> a

E

Sr

<C

0 o 0

a,

(a m.c

L

_____________ L ____________ I ______ I ______ L _________

LO

D

C»

c-)

-~

CD
Ln

c<a

<

c
o> <
~<a
c -o
<a-

o
(D <

o
CDi
O2
Ln

LO

-

Cm Cu

×

e

o
rCD

o

c a o-oo

n
ao a,

c

<a

ca

CD E O

et
=a

O c

O
a, cc O c

Es

o

CD

<

a

<a a>

a:

Ln

LO>
0

O
CD>

ci

o

> m
0 a:

<

mcd

LO

o

CD 0

o

E

àc 3
c
ca>

o>

E

LO

LO

o>

c

C

cm

cri

LO
o

E

(D

o

.g
-co

LO
C\i

(D c

LO

CD

o

csc

o

r

a,.

Ln

<a o> oc <
-10<

C-D

er2
Ln
<

o
A)-

C

o

o

o

c

CD
ccri

o

LO

z

oc

0ca

<> o

-o>

oc ¤
ac

ao
C3 0

'cF-

C-

~

To

ci> o

-

.2

o>

n

a>oa>

E

-

CD
o

o)

CDa

c

-

o

o

o

C)

ZZ
c

C\D
CD
c

C
o
c

CD

<

ME
o

C

g
-o
c

o

c×
E

o#
r-

o

<c2

C

°

Ln

Ln

LO

LO

CD
Co

CI)

LO

C\D

C\D
LO

c2J
LO

LO

0)
CD
o

co
CD

LO)

u

Ln

(D
r-

a)
C

C)
r_

r-

C

r_

o

o

o-

Ln

C

o

N
o
LO

o

co

LO

o

LO

Ci
Ln

C)

C)

o
LO

CD

r_
(D
N

C»
0

cJ
CD

0

E c

o

a)
o
o

0

LO
o

CD
U
E
co

c
UL)

N
Ln

cE
Ln

a©

a

o

C
D

LO

E

ci

E

C

CD

LO

L

L

r

o
D

o
N

!;

i

2

0c
LO

Z3

Z

C

CD

L

<

o

c

o
c ---

CD
C

CD

a) 0
m

<L

Ln

LO

CD

rICD
i

I

- DC:C
<
CMO
C:aZ
-J .<
D

-

LO

o

Ln

ZL

C\i

C»

LO

LO

LO
q

o
CD
<

E

m

Ln

C)
N m

om

Ci

ND
o
So
LO

r

oo

e
Et

:Tao
o
Ci

oE
o
C)

E

O

O

<

c

c9 a :
E>O
)

c< Co

LE

r-DO
CL
V0

C
ce

0
<.90

a)

cto

CD
-D

Ca
0
E

Et

E

;CD

aor
a®
E
Xtc

ac

cri

o

c\j

a)

<

0>
000-ë
0(
c

vo>
<DC

0

-

-M C»
D Ci

E:

o> C

to

2"o

r
c

0~ V uu
Ca

C9

-i

O

Cii

a-

c

C.)

6

om

a)

o C

C<

E

®

O
a
Cao .4

r

-

.c
-0

-

<o O .
<E

Ln

o

©

o?

.L)

1.
r- a)

E
Cao

o

a
- c

0

r--,.o
o. o.re

ac
Op

N

-

2
Ca .oa

a)2C.)

C-o
of

<D

o

<r
Ci
N

o

r
o

o :r-

C')

CD

-a 00c
o>
rO

<

o)

0
oco

O

a)
<

0.c.i
.)
<å cm

o

o:

<C.o

Er
CD

Ca
0
<a

oCg

4:

Oa
r
c

o
CD

EcD

~

C.,

2

a)
o

cO

Eo .

<a0

_22
-

a)o

0
Oi
CD

o

M O
CD c0
C~D

<

V

O5
>

<

n

é<

4:

c

-

C\

....
-

<-

-o
CD
z
Ci

o

C

m0

a)~CD

r~ CD
E

o
CD 0° r

-

.cm

o\

o

In

o Co
o-oO
.
CM

2
Eo

~o

To- .

r

4;C.

o

0C»

C

-e

®a>

-C/)

.

(DT

Ci

o

C

..

N

a>
COr
Et

roi

(D C
L

(

0
o

NM

C4

o
Ci

o

o

> a)

o
S

C o

o

C

cE

c-

L

2>

So

o
CDj
c-E
CD

C

CD
o

(D
a

a .
ZU

Ci

m

0

M0
0
c

(0

CI>

Ln
0

Ln
o
Ci
S

Ta)

Lr

ZO 0
.r

o

CD

o

c

Cr

cCD

o

o

C

-

otC

o

CD

G>

o

Cd

a

-

c

o

C

Ca

CL

0

Ln
M~

O>

LO

O)

Co

Ln

Ln

t

Le)

2

z

LO

c
z

c

0

10

10
-

Ln

j
Co

10

r<O

O

O)

L

LO

r

a

a
r-D
S

a>

c a
a)~

L
L

EE
E

0 âe 0
N>

a>

-

4

Q!

3

u~

.

-

!

Oc
ms

<

LmC

o

-

>

'5
2C

P
.

0r

,

CD

C>
Eo

a

Ln

Ln

pa a>

0

~.>

a»

<
a>

.Eo
c a>

x

C
a>~~~~-

-

o

Z2

U)~

<~~~~

<

m
o

5V

9

oa> 0

ZE

9<

NM

a)

V
o

0

U

cno

C
r-

tu

C

ND

)

Oo 0

0

a r-

o

C

ý5

r

2

o

E
N\j
-

e"
E
o

*

Co r

e

o

m o

_

c

o

cr

[Z

= E

-

a

e

Et

.
C

c

o

0E

1 -

a: m~
.

CC
x

0>Coa>

~
C C C.
0

<.

c

c

00
r c

C
:3.

c

0>

tu

0~<E

O

CI

3

Co

*CD

rc

m O

Co~d
a

CD Ma> C

9C

CO

0

as>~CC.

0

r-

0
E

O>

a

c-

cc O

r
DC

r

-

gJ

r> -

r

i

Co M.~,

Z-

>~

O.f
10
r3

-

Z> pC

o

>

CM
l-'- ~C> C)
cmaoeœ«0t

>v

a>r
a>a
E Dt

0V

Eo

vo

r-D1

CO

.
r

E
<t

r-0
c
>og 0 M 0

-

<1

Co
u

coo c

-

(0
i O)

r

_

e.Qaa>C
-

v

CCo

r-)
O9

CD

(D

Caa
oe

ru~

v
>a
a> c

aa

LiJ

o

o

.

O

CcC
0-

o

o

o
<DO

O

M>

V

c

LnC

CD

v-a

~

CD r-(D

Cm
z

c

-

-@

C.

O

>

C)

C

È>

Co

M

CM-C>

e>U-

'a
a

Oz
x

u)>a

o o
,

.É

r

Co

a

E
-.--

>

-'7c

O

0

(n~

-

3

o o

>

ça

E

E So

<>

CLE

0

<E u

r

o

a»
>e2

-om
C"

m

0)

CD10

iO0o
oo

-

>

O)

-

>

Co

(0

tu
LL

0)

o

!ea>

e.
o Z·5
O)

LO

rD

o~

d E

ED -6

O

a
.0O

r

C.d

oO)|

L0

-

-- - 0 e
o0

)

o

<aO

O

a

a

vD

O)l

-0

(z

a>

Ln

>

<U

-;2

O

>a
c

o2

C.
o)
O

aa>

.o

~

a)

sooe

-

e

N

a%

o

dÈE cý
eý

E
E

r-

c

o

c O
Co

E

r

a

O
©

CDJ

r-

O

O
rE

-

o

•
0

rD

-

-Eo

O

O

L

m

Ci

e

r-

a)

CD

-

L

O)
CDO)O L-r

--

a>
o

.

o

-oNo

a

LO

0C

(z

cýe
0

os

a

L-

-

e

o

O

a

10

Ou

o a>

C< 1

I

E

u0

M

oe

-

ý

e

0

c

o
x

-

M

e

v O

1

l

04 rl

L

t

O
.

0

L

L

L-

L

o

O

L

E

-

CD-r-

|)O

O)

Ln

©

o

c

r

n

Ln0

o

0

O

00

c

Q,
C)

O

L

O
c

Ln
ý

!

c

10

O)
rL

O

r

O

L

:

O
m

ýt

CD
D

L<

;10ý

e
L

!O)

t-

!ý

Ln

e>

LO

r

O

Lr

OD~~~~C

E
O

Ln
10

rN
c

o-

LO

LO

.-

(0

u

CI)

o

o

o

2?

N\

C\j

(0
o

Ln

LO

O;P

Ln

Ln

O

Ln

2ý
CD

Lo
-

o
S

LO

O2

0

C\
)

Ln

L

L

52

0)

iC
B

r0

[

(o

L

cm
L

(o

LO

c

co

0(

-0.Oc\-

o
U->
00

-

-

eo

o
LO

Co(

LO

LO

c

Ec
E c

o

oj

c

LO

C

r

c

c

>

i 00

10

cýE
E

EE ý E

E
E

E

ci,

q>i
$

c

LO

a) e

C,
a>
0

o

É

c

=a ,
<

>

zE

a

o>

»

o

c\l

c:r@ -

r

-

É
O m c ,
c~
o

CO

C

X

CDa

c>

C

Co
c

-

c:

c>

c-a

2 a:

V

~®E=

<

0

.o

C>

ci
D0

.=

-

c

ci

-.-~c
a>o

a>

E

0

a)

o_!
.

(Do >x

ac

m
>

-c
-a

eg

m

-,

-E

c

o

o(
-_

<

<

<

cc

cý

m

-c

x

E
Cuma

o

-

<<

ceo

Z

Cc
)

z

Ô_

.
(

E

E

r

ri IDi

o o

m

V

aooa>a>

-c-oc
o C
W

1

0i cr
o -0 E

-

-c
- z> r-c -L - . - ...

oo -

Er

-

r
i.2

m

C os
o)

co

-

c

_o
ccc
-om m 4 o

>

m C
C
2

-

Ec

ocflQ-ici.m
o

<<

(N

0

-E

_c

O52
a

r0

F; CO
(D

r.

-

Q>

>

CooCo

o

o

a

~o

o>i

c

o
Co
C

Ln

E

c !j

(Nci

o

C

o

)

C CD
mD ®

CL

.ro

Eý

o>

c

o

o

e

ý

E

CI) CD

o

2z5

C»
Co

Co

i

o

>

t:

o

E

E

E

E'>

o

o

E

44
c

+

G>e

~ 45O

E

0

L ;ca

T

CC

c

-

o

o

o

a)

c

-o

CD

o.

.M

>

--w
c>

(j
O

:

CD0

.-

r

c=

E

-

o
o

o

om

-E®o la

-

.

O

QD

o
t£

-oO

oC

ri

Qo
Q CDCD Co CD
0 = C tu
C

u) 0

W
<

O

<0<>

-90

o

N

oM
:

O

i-

-o

r

CD~C

o>
o

>

.o=

o

.

Cc

55
cc'>»

a>o

e

o

o

e

o

ci

S

.

»COoC

oo
-

o"

o

c

oQ

o

oeo

5
2o""

®·

CL oo

00

E<E

<O)

toý
0 2

.c

c

-o

0^
C

0'

E~

.-

=

E
hæs

e-

ýC -c
.cc

m

_-

5

c

0

o CD

t)

<G

'

.

à
tc

G> x

o

.o
ar
E

×

"at8ogo.
o~~ý

Ci - -.
C O otu

c0 -

cl;

Nc

.

3O>

Q.
toe

-

~

a>

C'J
ci.

Q

.

o

u

Co

o

0>

.E

e

.

o

~

* >

Cim

E

N-

Oni

CDE
<

Co

-

-DC.

o-.E<.

0
Cc Ci

m

o

(D Coc
<<
O
<00< c<oVJC
-

ci

(D

>

D 0

'-:'

C
D

M?

CD

a

t

*> Co~- a

O<

<cO

>à

C

CU.

> Ln

U) 0
a)

-

Co 0

o

me c

3
-t

-

.

.

N Oc o
c
O
N. ce oe
-

<2

c

< < >Ev af
<2

N

c o-

E

C!!
-=
Ln .
o
O
N

ò

LO

0 .o< 0>> cc
0~o < <0
O.

.

0

C
to ie
-~.c

O>

~>> -

E-

-

E
o

*OMF

<.3Oo

N - Ci
.

o0

o
EE

D

OM.
V
<<o0

c

na

c

E

Q ..c

o oo

C)

c CD

o

C

0i C i C i

Co

r

No9C
Ci7

